SEPTEMBER 2025
LINDY FURSMAN
HERMIONE DACE
MATTHEW MACGEOCH

International Carbon
Markets: Climate
Action at a Lower
Price
Contents

3 Executive Summary
8 The Current State of Carbon Markets
13 The Opportunity Presented by International

        Carbon Markets

18 The Barriers to Effective International Carbon
        Markets

22 The Technology and Policy Solutions to Enable
        Thriving Carbon Markets

54 Conclusion
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Executive Summary

Climate action has reached a pivotal moment. While public support for
climate action is at an all-time high, emissions are not decreasing at the
pace the world needs.

Many countries in the Global North are stalling or falling short on their
climate targets, while others are struggling to att act the fina ce required to
reduce emissions. As of 2019, about $450 billion1 of climate fina ce was
deployed annually in countries in the Global South, roughly 20 per cent of
what is needed by 2030. Announcements of cuts to foreign-aid budgets by
countries such as the United Kingdom and Germany make fina ce flows to
the Global South for climate action even more challenging.

These facts suggest that the world needs to scale up alternative solutions
to complement existing action.

International carbon markets are a tool that all countries, in both the Global
North and Global South, should seek to utilise. By creating a mechanism for
countries to sell carbon credits to companies or governments in other
countries in exchange for funds that are invested in domestic climate
projects, international carbon markets enable the flow of capital for climate
action from the Global North to the Global South. The benefits f these
projects go beyond just the climate: they can also help to create jobs and
strengthen infrastructure, supporting the development of local communities
in the Global South.

Although it is already possible for countries to invest in cheaper emissions-
reduction schemes elsewhere in the world and count these towards their
domestic climate targets, few countries are fully harnessing the opportunity
international carbon markets present. Part of the reason for this is that
confide ce in carbon markets has been undermined by concerns over their
integrity and impact. However, new standards, rules and reforms along with

                                                                                                                           3
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

the involvement of governments in shaping high-quality markets are
beginning to address these issues, laying the foundations for renewed trust
and the potential for large-scale participation.

Using carbon credits could reduce the overall cost of meeting all countries'
nationally determined contributions (NDCs) by more than half ­ or as much
as $250 billion in 2030.2 Expanding the use of international carbon markets
could lower the cost of achieving global emissions targets. If the savings
from implementation of NDCs using Article 6 markets were reinvested in
increased ambition, emissions mitigation could be more than doubled.3

For many countries in the Global North, international carbon markets offer an
opportunity to meet near-term climate targets at a lower cost. That means
that for many jurisdictions, there is likely to be the potential to achieve more
decarbonisation per dollar by funding a project in an emerging economy
rather than by decarbonising only at home. This is because abatement
options in countries in the Global South are generally more cost-effective
than in countries in the Global North.

For example, studies show that the marginal abatement cost (the economic
cost of an intervention that will reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by one
unit, such as a tonne) of scaling renewables such as rooftop solar and
offs ore wind in Germany in 2030 could total around 200 ($220) per tonne
of CO2 equivalent, whereas that same money could reduce significantl
more emissions if used elsewhere, for instance to retire coal early in
Indonesia, which some estimates show could cost as little as $12 o $13 to
abate one tonne of CO2.4,5,6

Climate change is a global problem, requiring truly global solutions. If every
government focuses only on addressing its own emissions, tackling climate
change will cost more and take longer. Humanity cannot afford to let that
happen. In many cases, it is possible to reduce a tonne of CO2 much more
cost-effectively through deploying renewables and displacing fossil fuels in
the Global South, where climate fina ce is lacking and energy demand
growth soaring, than in decarbonising residual or hard-to-abate emissions in
the Global North.

                                                                                                                           4
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Although some countries in the Global North may be hesitant to invest in
climate action outside their borders, well-designed and functioning
international carbon markets provide an opportunity to support international
development efforts while reducing emissions, and ­ if combined with
industrial policy ­ could create further investment opportunities around the
world. Scaling these markets now, by using them to meet a small proportion
of domestic targets, would also help buy time to commercialise and scale
the solutions the world will need to achieve net zero by 2050.

To bring carbon markets to their full potential, policymakers in both the
Global North and Global South need to act now to ensure emissions
reductions traded through these platforms are real and verifiable a d to
reduce political and logistical barriers affecting these markets. Investing in
technological solutions and implementing policy changes in both "buyer"
countries and "seller" countries could deliver the breakthrough for reducing
emissions that the world is looking for.

Technology offers promising solutions to some of the challenges currently
facing carbon markets. Governments can capitalise on the use of
technology to support the foundations of carbon markets by:

· Leveraging artificial-in elligence tools for climate and economic planning
   and to expand access to marginal abatement cost curves (MAC curves)
   for policymaking

· Investing in digital monitoring, reporting and verification (M V)
   infrastructure using AI, satellite data and remote sensing

· Supporting international collaboration on digital infrastructure, especially
   for smaller countries, through shared or multilateral registries

· Embedding AI tools into regulatory processes to automate auditing,
   detect anomalies and improve oversight capacity

· Encouraging the use and regulation of carbon-credit-rating agencies to
   independently assess offs t quality and manage market risk with
   standardised, transparent methodologies

                                                                                                                           5
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Policy mechanisms are also crucial to ensuring carbon markets can deliver
on their promise. To harness the full potential of carbon markets,
policymakers in predominantly Global North "buyer" countries should:

· Provide a clear signal of market direction by implementing an advance
   market commitment for high-quality carbon removals

· Provide clarity and confide ce to the voluntary purchasers of credits by
   providing guidance, endorsing standards and aligning across international
   boundaries

· In the medium term, allow a fi ed percentage of international credits to
   be used by private companies to meet their domestic compliance
   obligations

· Multilateral development banks and sovereign wealth funds should
   explore the potential to receive carbon credits as part of a broader return
   on fina cial investments

To att act investment for climate projects, policymakers in predominantly
Global South "seller" countries should:

· Clearly set out the path to meeting domestic NDCs and the role that
   carbon markets will play in helping to achieve economic and
   development goals

· Strengthen domestic frameworks to engage with Article 6 and put in
   place the necessary policy, regulatory and legal frameworks

· Empower fina ce ministries to collaborate on carbon market strategies
· Strengthen South-South collaboration to share systems, knowledge and

   resources
· Respond to demand from compliance markets that allow companies to

   use a fi ed share of ITMOs to meet part of their obligations, and support
   the delivery of credits aligned with their standards
· While developing both emissions reductions and removal projects in the
   immediate term, in the longer term, focus support on the removals
   market, to align with increasing global demand

                                                                                                                           6
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Against a backdrop of economic uncertainty, slowing climate ambition and
geopolitical tensions, supporting international carbon markets is more
important than ever.
If the world gets this right, the prize is huge. Carbon markets could provide
billions of dollars of capital to the Global South and bring down global
emissions more cost effectively and quickly.

                                                                                                                           7
    INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

01  The Current State of Carbon
    Markets

    The goal of carbon markets is to lower overall emissions in a cost-effective
    manner, by allowing reductions to occur wherever it is least expensive to do
    so. Carbon markets are trading systems that assign a monetary value to
    carbon emissions, enabling companies, governments and individuals to buy,
    sell or offs t their emissions. By putting a price on emi sions or proven
    carbon removals and allowing representative "credits" or "units" to be
    traded, carbon markets incentivise actors to reduce their emissions where
    the costs of doing so are less than the value of the emissions themselves.

    There are three main types of carbon markets: compliance markets,
    voluntary markets and Article 6 markets.

    The Emergence of Compliance Carbon Markets

    To meet their binding Kyoto emissions targets in the face of rapidly
    increasing emissions, countries and states began to experiment with
    domestic emissions-trading schemes (ETSs). In 2002 the UK became the
    fi st government to introduce an economy-wide ETS, followed by the EU in
    2005.

    In an ETS, the government sets a limit, or "cap", on the total amount of
    emissions allowed in a particular sector or area. For each tonne of CO2
    emitted per year, firms u der the scheme must buy and surrender to the
    government a credit (or unit), with the total number of credits capped in
    each sector. Units are tradable between emitters, allowing a low emitter to
    sell its spare units to a high emitter, creating a dynamic market price.
    Emissions reductions that would cost less per tonne than the price of units
    thus become the more economical option (either because the emitter
    doesn't need to purchase units, or because they can sell surplus units at a
    price higher than the costs of their decarbonisation action). The cap on

                                                                   8
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

emissions is reduced over time, decreasing unit supply and driving up the
value of units, thus incentivising further emissions reductions at rising price
levels.

Carbon taxes, which directly price carbon emissions, emerged as a
complementary approach to ETSs. These taxes charge businesses or
individuals a fi ed price per tonne of carbon dioxide emitted, or equivalent
volumes of other greenhouse gases.

Today, governments in almost all countries in the Global North have
implemented compliance schemes of some kind. These are domestic,
mandatory schemes, created by regulatory bodies, which aim to help meet
emissions-reduction targets.

The Rise of Voluntary Carbon Markets

Alongside compliance markets, voluntary carbon markets have also been
developing. These markets function across international boundaries and are
supported primarily by businesses that choose to offs t their emissions.

In voluntary markets, credits (often referred to as "offs ts") are traded
between developers who execute projects that reduce emissions and
corporates who voluntarily purchase the resulting units to offs t their
emissions. These projects may be "removal" projects, which absorb
greenhouse gases from the atmosphere ­ for instance through nature-
based solutions or technology-based projects such as direct air capture ­
or reduction or avoidance schemes, whereby carbon credits represent
reduced or avoided emissions ­ for example through not engaging in
deforestation or scaling renewable energy.

In contrast to compliance markets, voluntary markets are typically not
regulated by governments but have depended on the reputation of those
administering the scheme. In some areas this has raised concerns over the
robustness of attrib tion of credits to units of carbon removed or avoided.

                                                                                                                           9
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

The voluntary market has continued to develop since the late 2010s, and
significant initiati es to raise the quality of voluntary carbon credits kicked
off at OP26 in 2021. However, in the last few years increased scrutiny,
particularly of overrepresentation of past carbon reductions, hit the value,
supply and demand for credits in the voluntary market.

The Development of Article 6 of the Paris
Agreement

Article 6 of the Paris Agreement enables international carbon markets
between governments and has several elements.

Article 6.2 allows countries to voluntarily cooperate in meeting their
nationally determined contributions (NDCs) by buying and selling
Internationally Transferred Mitigation Outcomes (ITMOs, often called carbon
credits). This allows countries to claim others' emissions reductions towards
their own climate targets by trading instruments that represent 1 tonne of
CO2 removed from the atmosphere.

For example, Switzerland buys ITMOs from renewable-energy projects in
Ghana. This helps Switzerland to reach its climate goals at lower cost while
also supporting Ghana's development. Countries must apply "corresponding
adjustments" to their emissions inventories, meaning that when one country
buys ITMOs from another country, the "buyer" country can subtract that
emission reduction from its own emissions total, but the "seller" country
must make a "corresponding adjustment" to ensure that the emissions
reduction isn't subtracted from its total. This avoids double counting
emissions reductions.

Article 6.4, by contrast, creates a framework for a global carbon market
rather than focusing on trades between two parties. Known as the Paris
Agreement Crediting Mechanism, or PACM, this market allows countries to
generate and trade carbon credits from emissions-reduction or removal
projects. While Article 6.2 is decentralised and relies on bilateral agreements,
Article 6.4 is centralised under a United Nations-led mechanism.

                                                                                                                          10
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

FIGURE 1

The key differences between compliance,
voluntary and Article 6 carbon markets

Source: TBI analysis

The Current State of Play

Today, in part driven by increased climate ambition and regulation, as well as
the EU's Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM), compliance
markets such as ETSs continue to expand in coverage and ambition
throughout the world, and now cover 28 per cent of global emissions.7
The implementation of Article 6 is progressing, with cooperative agreements
and pilot projects between countries beginning to emerge. The voluntary
market is seeing increased oversight in response to concerns about the
credibility and quality of credits. However, the impact that Article 6 will have
on the voluntary market remains to be seen, with issuance of Article 6.4
credits expected to begin in late 2025. And despite growing momentum for
Article 6.2, the pace of development needs to be accelerated.

                                                                                                                           11
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Global action is needed to fulfil t e promise of international carbon markets,
enabling the flow of capital for climate action between countries, often from
the Global North to the Global South. This paper sets out the actions that
can help international carbon markets deliver, focusing predominantly on the
opportunity to trade ITMOs under Article 6, as well as the voluntary market
as a mechanism to facilitate the trade of voluntary credits internationally.

                                                                                                                          12
    INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

02  The Opportunity Presented by
    International Carbon Markets

    There are three key reasons why now is the right time for governments to
    help scale international carbon markets. First, many countries are not on
    track to achieve their NDCs and are faced with the economic and political
    difficult s of "last-mile decarbonisation" within a given sector. Second,
    climate fina ce in the Global South is falling short of what is needed. Finally,
    just as the need for carbon markets is growing, markets themselves are
    developing, giving governments increasing opportunities to help scale them.

    Efficient Use of Decarbonisation Dollars in the
    Global North

    Carbon markets present a significant oppo tunity to reduce global
    emissions at an efficient price while still al wing individual countries to meet
    their NDCs.

    Many countries in the Global North have already achieved the most cost-
    effective domestic decarbonisation actions within key sectors, while
    remaining attempts to decarbonise the last 5 to 10 per cent of the power
    sector, for example, or tackle hard-to-abate emissions in industry or
    agriculture, may be more expensive and harder to deliver.

    The difficulty f domestic decarbonisation is apparent when looking at
    NDCs. Although targets to meet NDCs are fast approaching ­ in 2030 for
    most countries ­ many nations are not on track to meet them. Furthermore,
    most countries missed a UN deadline to submit 2035 NDCs, a delay that
    many attrib ted to economic pressures and political uncertainty.8 The EU
    also delayed the release of its proposed 2040 target aiming for a 90 per
    cent reduction in emissions below 1990 levels due to concerns and
    pushback from some EU member states and political groups.

                                                                   13
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

As NDC deadlines for both current and new targets loom, countries will
need to consider the most cost-effective and pragmatic ways to achieve
these. A "purist" approach, focused only on domestic delivery, will not
necessarily achieve the best outcomes for the taxpayer or for tackling the
climate crisis, especially if countries fail to deliver the decarbonisation
promised. A more pragmatic approach, focused on scaling well-designed
and high-integrity carbon markets and delivering even a small proportion of
national targets through them, can help to reduce global emissions where it
is most cost-effective in the short term, while buying time to develop and
scale the necessary technologies needed to reach net zero by 2050.
International carbon markets, as a supplement to domestic action, can offer
a more economical option that also delivers sustainable development and
innovation benefits in ost (Global South) countries if structured in the right
way.
Studies show that in 2030 the marginal abatement cost (the economic cost
of an intervention that will reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by one unit) of
scaling renewables such as rooftop solar and offs ore wind in Germany
could total around $220 per tonne of CO2 equivalent saved. In contrast,
assessments indicate that same money could abate significantly g eater
emissions if used to retire coal early in Indonesia, with case studies showing
the cost to be less than $50/tCO2e, and as low as $12 to $13/tCO2e by
some estimates.9,10,11,12

                                                                                                                          14
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

FIGURE 2

The cost of abating one tonne of
emissions in countries in the Global
North can pay for multiples more in
countries in the Global South

          Cost to abate 1 tonne of COe                         Potential abatement for the same cost

$250

$200

$150

$100

$50

$0                                                             Early coal retirement in Indonesia
                   Rooftop solar and offshore wind in Germany

Note: The price referenced here refers to the early retirement of coal plants, without the cost of replacing that installed capacity
with renewables, grid improvements or battery storage.
Source: Misconel et al.; University of Maryland; Monetary Authority of Singapore and McKinsey & Company; Institute for Energy
Economics and Financial Analysis; TBI analysis

The economics and fiscal c sts of climate action mean that some
governments are now looking to capitalise on the opportunities that
international carbon markets bring. In its April 2025 manifesto, Germany's
new coalition government pledged the use of Article 6 credits in its climate
policy, allowing up to 3 per cent of Germany's emissions-reduction target to
be met through foreign carbon reductions. The EU Commission has
proposed a plan to allow the use of international carbon credits for up to 3
per cent of the EU's 2040 emissions-reduction target, meaning it could buy
credits in the final our years running up to 2040. While the proposal (at the

                                                                                                      15
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

time of writing) still requires parliamentary and EU Council approval, in theory
it would bring some 150 million tonnes of additional demand for carbon
credits.13

However, other governments are concerned that by investing in international
carbon markets to achieve their NDCs they are foregoing investment in
climate action domestically, and therefore may lose potential innovation,
green jobs and growth opportunities such investment may deliver. While
interventions to reduce emissions domestically may stimulate local
economies (and therefore might be preferred by voters), the electorate
won't directly see the benefits f investment in climate action overseas.

While international carbon markets can play a significant ole in reducing
global emissions, they should not be seen as a substitute for domestic
decarbonisation. For all countries, domestic decarbonisation should be the
primary focus. However, the use of international markets offers a cost-
effective complement to domestic action which brings benefits in ddition
to the immediate climate benefi .

Sufficient Capital for Climate Action in the Global
South

As countries in the Global South grow and their energy needs increase, they
are expected to account for a larger share of global emissions in the future.
This means scaling climate solutions in countries in the Global South is a
critical part of limiting global temperature rises.

However, current investment needs for climate projects in countries in the
Global South far exceed existing available resources. As of 2019, about $450
billion14 of climate fina ce was deployed annually in countries in the Global
South, roughly 20 per cent of what is needed by 2030.

Traditional aid budgets are also shrinking in key donor countries such as the
US, UK and Germany, which will likely leave a gap in funding for climate-
related projects and initiatives.

                                                                                                                          16
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Carbon markets can help deliver funding that supports sustainable
development in countries in the Global South and provides additional
resources to implement climate projects. Several countries in the Global
South are exploring how they can att act fina ce through harnessing
international carbon markets.

Maturing Markets

Just as the need for, and value of, international carbon markets become
clearer, markets themselves are about to become more significan .
The rules for Article 6 of the Paris Agreement were finalised a d formally
launched in Baku in November 2024. This mechanism, enabling bilateral
(Article 6.2) and multilateral (Article 6.4) exchanges of ITMOs, has the
potential to help countries in the Global North achieve their climate targets
more economically, while also promising to provide sustainable development
fina cing for countries in the Global South. With Article 6.2 agreements
underway, and Article 6.4 standards soon to be finalised, it is ssential that
governments understand and apply carbon-market mechanisms within their
own contexts.

                                                                                                                          17
    INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

03  The Barriers to Effective
    International Carbon Markets

    Despite years of international negotiations and significant i vestments,
    carbon markets are yet to achieve their full potential. In part this is due to
    perceived political difficult s of using these markets.

    A fundamental concern for governments is the potential for domestic
    political backlash arising from the perception of "outsourcing" climate action
    to other countries ­ and sending the capital to fund it abroad. Although it is
    currently possible for countries to count climate action abroad towards their
    domestic NDCs, exporting emissions reductions can be perceived as
    undermining domestic co-benefits a d growth opportunities that could
    arise if that money was invested at home. In addition, countries need to
    weigh up whether relying on units to meet near-term targets could make it
    harder to achieve future NDCs. Under the Paris Agreement, countries are
    required to submit NDCs every fi e years, with each one more ambitious
    than the last. Delaying domestic emissions reductions could leave a steeper
    mitigation curve later. However, the use of only a small proportion of
    international units mitigates much of this risk while also allowing for near-
    term action at a lower cost, something that the current political environment,
    together with the urgency of addressing the climate crisis, makes a priority.

    In addition, technical challenges need to be addressed by governments on
    both the demand and supply sides of carbon markets. On the demand side,
    there are barriers preventing governments and companies in the Global
    North from purchasing carbon credits from abroad. On the supply side,
    there are barriers hindering governments in the Global South from
    developing effective climate projects that can generate tradable credits.

                                                                   18
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

FIGURE 3

Barriers to scaling international carbon
markets

Source: TBI analysis

Demand-Side Barriers

Although carbon trading between governments is on the rise ­ to date there
have been approximately 97 bilateral agreements between countries under
Article 6.215 involving 59 countries that have or intend to sell or buy ITMOs ­
most agreements are currently for very small volumes of emissions
reductions. And while a number of countries have expressed an intention to
purchase ITMOs, not many have taken concrete steps. For example, the UK
does not currently have plans to use ITMOs to meet its climate targets
under the Paris Agreement, with the Climate Change Committee explicitly
recommending against their use, except possibly for international direct air
carbon capture funding closer to 2050.16 In addition, demand in voluntary
markets has remained relatively flat over the past few years.

                                                                                                                          19
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

While there is potential for demand to increase, several barriers currently
stand in the way. Some of the key barriers and solutions are summarised in
Figure 4.

FIGURE 4

Demand-side barriers and solutions

Source: TBI analysis

Supply-Side Barriers

To date, many countries in the Global South have failed to att act fina ce
through carbon markets. Since 2020, the voluntary market has been the
primary credit market for low-income countries, with credits generated
mostly from nature-based solutions.17 Six low-income countries account for
more than 75 per cent of all voluntary market credits ­ Cambodia, DRC,
Bangladesh, Uganda, Malawi and Zambia.18

                                                                                                                         20
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

There are several barriers that prevent the credible supply of climate
projects, or the involvement of countries in the Global South in Article 6
markets. These barriers, and corresponding solutions, are set out in Figure 5.

FIGURE 5

Supply-side barriers and solutions

Source: TBI analysis

                                                                                                                          21
    INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

04  The Technology and Policy
    Solutions to Enable Thriving
    Carbon Markets

    Governments need to take steps to overcome the barriers that are currently
    preventing carbon markets from scaling. They can do so by harnessing
    technology, which is developing rapidly, as well as implementing policy
    solutions to address barriers on both the demand and supply side. The
    following sections set out solutions across three areas over the short and
    medium term.

    FIGURE 6

    Recommendations to empower
    international carbon markets

    Source: TBI analysis

                                                                                                                             22
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Policy Recommendations for Technology Adoption

As outlined, integrity concerns are holding back carbon markets. Purchasers
need assurance that the credits they purchase are high-quality, credible and
transparent.

FIGURE 7

Common integrity concerns in carbon
markets

Source: TBI analysis

MRV is essential for proving that a project has reduced or removed
greenhouse-gas emissions. Traditional MRV involves collecting data on a
project's baseline emissions, measuring the actual emissions and
calculating the carbon reduction achieved. Project developers, carbon-credit
byers and regulatory bodies all rely on MRV data. However, traditional MRV is
often very expensive due to factors like manual data collection and the
complexity of verifying large volumes of data.
A new wave of technologies can help bring integrity to international carbon
markets. These should stimulate demand for carbon credits, benefitti
countries in the Global South that might be selling these credits.
Technologies can help address issues all along the pipeline from project
development to credit issuance and trading.

                                                                                                                         23
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

FIGURE 8

New technologies can help track
projects throughout their development

Source: TBI analysis

Recommendation: Leverage AI tools for climate and economic planning and
to expand access to MAC curves for policymaking.
In the Global North, MAC curves are a routine tool of climate economics. In
many countries in the Global South, however, this technical and econometric
tool is out of reach: reliable emission baselines are patchy, cost data is held
by corporates and modelling soft are comes with significant lice ce fees.
As a result, economic plans, NDCs and Article 6 strategies are often
developed without this vital information.
Yet these tools are essential for identifying the most cost-effective
emissions-reduction opportunities across different sectors. In the absence
of detailed local data and modelling capacity, AI offers a transformative
opportunity. AI systems can rapidly aggregate and analyse diverse data
sources ­ from satellite imagery and emissions inventories to economic and
infrastructure datasets. This fills critical ga s and producing more granular,
actionable MAC curves than traditional methods allow.

                                                                                                                         24
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

In the past, free modelling tools typically meant Excel macros that were
technical to edit or update. Today policymakers can use these existing Excel
workbooks, like the MACTool from the Global Climate Action Partnership19 or
the ggmacc package20 paired with an AI-empowered cloud notebook like
Google Colab or Deepnote. A policymaker can then type, "show me the
cheapest path to cut 15 megatonnes (Mt) CO2 by 2030". The large-language
model then can draft t e code, and the policymaker can watch the waterfall
chart materialise within seconds. Because each assumption for the model is
visible line by line, the relevant analyst can then review or update the model
easily.

For systemic questions and analysis, these data sets can slot neatly into
open-source tools like OSeMOSYS or TransitionZero's Scenario Builder, two
open-source energy modelling systems.21,22 Where that is too
computationally heavy, researchers could even call upon emIAM, an
emulator for integrated assessment models trained on ten existing models,
that can reproduce economy-wide MAC curves in milliseconds on a
laptop.23 Such tools mean that ministries no longer need to commission
bespoke models or hire consultant companies to test whether new climate
policies make fina cial sense.

With the right digital infrastructure and governance in place, AI-enabled
MAC curves can support countries in aligning their development and climate
ambitions, while also att acting investment by demonstrating clear, data-
driven decarbonisation pathways.

Recommendation: Governments should set the standards to attract
investment in digital MRV infrastructure using AI, satellite data and remote
sensing.

One of the biggest integrity challenges in carbon markets is accurately
measuring emissions reductions or removals. Many carbon projects suffer
from flawed baselines against which to measure change (for instance overly
optimistic or pessimistic assumptions about deforestation risk), unverifiabl
or outdated data, and project developers relying on assumptions rather than
empirical observation.

                                                                                                                         25
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Satellite imagery and AI-powered remote sensing can help monitor and
verify emissions reductions and compare these to a baseline of activity that
would have occurred without intervention, particularly in areas like forestry
and land-use changes. They can track land-use changes and deforestation,
flag potential risks like fi e or droughts, and monitor vegetation health.
Advanced sensors can now measure biomass at the tree level, to provide
much more precise carbon-stock estimates.

Companies like Pachama and Kayrros use machine learning to monitor
forest growth and land-use changes with precision, while LiDAR (3D
scanning) drones can measure biomass and forest growth, allowing for
highly accurate carbon-stock estimates. Climate TRACE, an independent
global coalition cofounded by Al Gore, leverages satellite and
remotesensing data with machine learning to generate nearrealtime,
facilitylevel emissions estimates for more than 660 million sources
worldwide. AI-powered models can also predict how much carbon a project
can capture, making planning and risk assessment more reliable.

The EU's approach to data sharing should serve as an example: in addition
to using its Copernicus satellite data to power its certification f amework for
permanent removals (the Carbon Removal and Carbon Farming Regulation
or CRCF), it has also applied a "full, free, and open" policy to these data
since 2013. This enabled companies like Kayrros to commercialise the data.
These two policies are additive and innovative: open data provides credible,
low-cost evidence while the CRCF channels that evidence into a trusted and
regulation-backed market mechanism ­ creating a virtuous cycle that
accelerates uptake, empowers transparency and operationalises capital
flows for removals.

Recommendation: Support international collaboration on digital
infrastructure such as blockchain, including through shared or multilateral
registries.

Registries are systems that record emissions reductions and where carbon-
credit transactions can take place. They track who owns carbon credits,
when they were issued and whether they've been retired. This is important
as it can help prevent double counting and fraud. However, fragmented data

                                                                                                                         26
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

across multiple registries and standards has been a longstanding issue for
carbon markets and has led to a lack of market trust. Not all countries ­
especially small countries ­ need their own registry. Instead, regional or
multilateral registries (like Article 6.4) can help reduce administrative burden
and data discrepancies.

Blockchain can improve carbon-market registries. Recording every carbon-
credit issuance, transfer and retirement on a blockchain ledger, which
cannot be tampered with, would prevent double counting and fraud, as well
as ensuring all data are consistent and up to date. Smart contracts could
offer further effici cies: automating and enforcing the rules governing
credit issuance and retirement, reducing administrative overhead,
automating transactions and minimising the risk of human error or
manipulation.

The World Bank-backed Climate Action Data (CAD) Trust, launched at
COP27, uses blockchain-powered digital infrastructure to tie together
private, national and international registries in a trustworthy, decentralised
model, improving transparency of data. This offers a fully traceable record of
carbon-credit activities, including issuance, trading and retirement, which
should enhance trust and security in the carbon trading process. Zimbabwe
recently launched a blockchain-backed carbon-credit registry which is
designed to bring transparency and accountability to its carbon market.
Ghana has also signed up with ZERO13 (a fin ech platform) to connect its
national Ghana Carbon Registry to the blockchain-based Global ITMO
Trading Hub and Settle ent Network in Singapore. By embedding and
automating accountability and traceability into the trading infrastructure
itself, blockchain has the potential to become a foundational layer of carbon
markets, one that is enhanced by its use across jurisdictions.

Recommendation: Embed AI tools into processes to improve the monitoring
and regulation of carbon markets, including to automate auditing, detect
anomalies and improve oversight capacity.

Beyond improving technical integrity, AI can substantially reduce the
administrative workload of monitoring and regulating carbon markets. While
a traditional manual audit can process 100-150 projects per year, a digital

                                                                                                                         27
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

MRV system, backed up with AI, empowers a single auditor to verify 10
projects per day.24 This reduces timelines from months to days and frees up
staff o concentrate on high-risk cases and policy design. Natural-language-
processing tools can extract key details from documentation and flag
inconsistencies or flawed baselines, while anomaly-detection models can
reconcile emissions data from across registries, slashing the burden of data
entry, cross-checking and error resolution.

Recommendation: Encourage the use and regulation of carbon-credit-
rating agencies.

A new generation of companies called carbon-credit-rating agencies
assess the risks of credits with frameworks like those used in fina cial risk
assessment. Using letter-grade ratings, like their bond-market counterparts,
companies like BeZero and Sylvera aim to capture data covering all potential
points of failure in a project. To do this at scale and with high degrees of
accuracy, these firms empl y tech-heavy assessment methodologies that
combine remote sensing, machine learning on satellite and LiDAR data,
remote hazard detection, and other domain expertise. The trustworthiness
and validity of these agencies' work is dependent on strong conflict-of-
interest management, transparent ratings methodologies, and high
technical standards. Governments should actively explore the regulation of
these agencies, similar to their debt-market counterparts.

Policy Recommendations to Fix Demand-Side
Barriers

Stimulating greater demand for international carbon credits will be essential
to help carbon markets meet their full potential. However, currently there
aren't sufficient centives in place to stimulate demand at the scale that is
needed. As set out above, in addition to integrity concerns, many countries
are hesitant to participate in carbon markets either because of a lack of
knowledge about cost savings, a lack of certainty over Article 6 rules or fear
about losing domestic growth opportunities as a consequence of investing
overseas rather than in domestic decarbonisation.

                                                                                                                         28
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

In addition to addressing integrity concerns, there are steps governments in
the Global North can take to stimulate demand and fina ce emissions
reductions in the Global South.

SHORT TERM
Recommendation: Provide a signal of market direction by implementing an
advance market commitment (AMC) for high-quality carbon removals.

Carbon-dioxide removals (CDR), ranging from engineered solutions like
direct air capture to afforestation, will play a vital role in the journey to net
zero. Yet today, the market signal for durable CDRs remains weak. Article 6
has so far struggled to deliver predictable demand signals, or clear
agreement on project selection for high-quality credits. If unchecked, it risks
becoming a platform for lowest-common-denominator offs ts, like its
predecessor, the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).

A targeted AMC could change this. By committing f ture demand for high-
quality carbon removals, a coalition of governments could both de-risk
private investment for CDRs and push the Article 6 supervisory body (SBM)
to prioritise corresponding adjustment and rigorous methodologies,
increasing perceptions of market integrity.

The EU and its members, alongside the UK, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland
and South Korea, are well-positioned to lead. Each has demonstrated the
political will to invest in removals already, and Japan in particular is already
beginning to allow companies to meet their ETS obligations with limited use
of international removal credits.25 The EU is signalling it will allow the same,
and the UK has indicated the introduction of a similar policy, but only
domestically.26,27 A coordinated AMC from this group, underpinned by
shared standards on quality and aligned on international climate
coordination, would offer the scale and coherence needed to move markets.
This coalition could also leverage strategic diplomacy to encourage uptake
in key host countries.

                                                                                                                         29
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Momentum is building, and these countries should follow the lead from
existing AMCs: the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has pledged to buy $450
million of African carbon credits by 2030, and Saudi Arabia has signed a
deal to purchase 30 million tonnes of credits from the Global South by
2030.28,29 Their efforts underscore a growing geopolitical awareness of
carbon markets as economic tools and soft-power instruments. European
and East Asian governments should join them and take a competitive step
further by committing o an AMC for removals.

Countries in the Global North should launch a coordinated AMC by COP30,
grounded in a shared commitment to environmental integrity, innovation and
global cooperation. By aligning on high quality standards and pooling
demand, this coalition could accelerate investment in removals, reshape
host country incentives and bring credibility back to the centre of Article 6.

Recommendation: Provide clarity and confidence to the voluntary
purchasers of credits by publishing guidance, endorsing standards and
aligning across international boundaries.

Hundreds of companies have pledged to hit net zero by 2050, yet the
voluntary carbon market is still under-regulated, under-trusted and under-
scaled. This means that demand for voluntary credits is stagnating, leaving
an untapped source of capital. Governments in the Global North should
create clarity and confide ce for corporate buyers, to help stimulate
demand. To combat doubts over the credibility of carbon credits,
governments should endorse robust, science-based crediting
methodologies such as the Core Carbon Principles (CCP) from the Integrity
Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market, as the UK and France have
recently done. In line with recent guidance from the Voluntary Carbon
Market Integrity Initiative, governments should signal that carbon credits
should comprise only one part of a company's decarbonisation strategy ­
and be transparently reported as such. They should be used to offs t
residual and supply-chain emission targets, rather than disrupt genuine
direct decarbonisation. Finally, instead of pursuing separate regulatory
frameworks independently, countries should collaborate on a clear and

                                                                                                                         30
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

uniform approach across jurisdictions to avoid confusing corporations that
operate across international borders, a step that the UK, Singapore and
Kenya have recently begun.30
MEDIUM TERM
Recommendation: Consider allowing a fixed percentage of international
credits to be used to meet domestic compliance obligations.
A growing number of governments are enabling companies that are
regulated under compliance markets (such as an ETS or carbon tax) to use
a limited number of high-quality carbon credits, domestic or international, to
meet their compliance obligations. As of the fi st half of 2025, 40 per cent of
compliance markets do this.31 While domestic credits reinvest funds into a
nation's own natural capital, limited international credit (ITMO) use could
deliver the same impact at a lower cost. Measures to require the buyer
country's own involvement in, or even ownership of, the projects in Global
South countries that generate credits could help mitigate concerns that
such proposals don't support economies at home.

                                                                                                                          31
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE
FIGURE 9

ITMO use in compliance markets, using
the example of a carbon tax

Source:TBI

                                                                                                                         32
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

If implemented in the right way, allowing ITMO use in compliance carbon
markets could reduce costs for domestic businesses, as well as spurring
demand for high-quality climate projects and channelling fina ce to
mitigation efforts in countries in the Global South.
This approach could also help to address the long-term demand issues in
international carbon markets. As shown in Figure 10, allowing companies to
use eligible carbon credits to offs t a portion of their emissions could
provide a steady and sustained stream of demand, potentially on the order
of hundreds of millions of tonnes.

FIGURE 10

The potential demand increases to
carbon markets if additional compliance
schemes were to allow 5 per cent use of
ITMOs in compliance markets

Source: World Bank Carbon Pricing Dashboard, country-level emissions data, TBI analysis.
* China's National ETS already has a mechanism for offs t usage, allowing 5 per cent of carbon emissions to be offs t, but only
with domestic projects.
Methodological note: The uplift o demand is calculated by taking the maximum potential demand from existing compliance
carbon markets that allow offs t use (115.9 MtCO2, detailed in the supply-side recommendations below) and calculating the
individual added demand if the above markets also implemented offs t use.

                                                                                                                         33
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Several governments have already implemented this approach, albeit with
key differences. Singapore has a carbon tax on greenhouse-gas emissions
that applies to facilities emitting ab ve a certain threshold. Businesses can
reduce the amount they pay in carbon tax by using international carbon
credits, but only for up to 5 per cent of their emissions. When businesses
buy credits, they are in effect paying for Singapore's participation in
international carbon markets. This adds flexibility for businesses and helps
Singapore meet climate goals through cost-effective international
cooperation.

FIGURE 11

How Singapore uses ITMOs within its
compliance market

Source: TBI analysis

                                                                                                                         34
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

In Switzerland, revenue from taxing motor-fuel importers is channelled to a
not-for-profit o ganisation with a public mandate to help meet Switzerland's
climate goals. The KliK Foundation is mandated to purchase ITMO offs ts,
predominantly from abroad, on the state's behalf, thereby facilitating a
quarter of the country's NDC commitments.

South Korea's ETS similarly allows companies to meet up to 5 per cent of
their obligations using international credits from projects Korean firms h ve
helped develop. This ensures Korean businesses are involved in the supply
chain, such as providing technology for MRV or fina cing the project. This
means that even though emissions reductions occur overseas, there is still
some benefit or Korean firm , which can help to overcome public backlash
or fears that taxpayers are subsidising other countries.

This approach has several advantages. Regulatory endorsement of
international carbon markets ­ whether voluntary or under Article 6 ­
creates stable, predictable demand for credits. Allowing entities to offs t a
small percentage of their emissions with offs t credits, typically less than 10
per cent, can gently ease the existing fina cial and economic costs of
carbon levies to emitters and to the economy at large, especially when
domestic abatement options are expensive.

However, there are some risks. Done poorly, allowing ITMO use to meet
compliance obligations could dilute the incentives for companies to
decarbonise, allowing them to buy more cost-effective offs ts abroad
instead of reducing their own emissions. Timing is important too: buying
ITMOs for 2035 NDC targets means that a government will have to purchase
even more ITMOs (or make deeper cuts) to stay on track for its subsequent
NDC. This means these schemes need to be designed carefully, with strict
credit quality, robust governance and clear limits. To mitigate this, countries
should adopt strict caps on credit use, typically between 4 per cent and 10
per cent.

Another key challenge is that governments would also forgo the same 5 per
cent of revenue from their compliance markets. However, in return, they
lower compliance costs for businesses and achieve climate action at a
lower cost.

                                                                                                                         35
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Furthermore, concerns over the variable quality and credibility of voluntary
credits means there must be stringent approval processes. Solutions include
rigorous third-party verification or di ect governmental oversight.
Administrative complexities and potential political backlash, stemming from
reduced domestic revenues or international fina cial flows, also require
careful management. Countries can navigate these challenges by
optimising the balance between domestic and international offs ts,
emphasising local co-benefits a d maintaining transparency with
stakeholders.
Policy mechanisms to allow ITMO use in compliance carbon markets vary
significantl , reflecting national contexts and institutional capacities. Options
range from direct acceptance of existing voluntary-carbon-market
standards, as Singapore does, to more controlled approaches such as
South Korea's, which requires project-specific g vernment approval.
Switzerland exemplifi s a single-registry approach, channelling carbon-tax
revenues through a dedicated entity tasked with offs t purchases,
simplifying administration and ensuring consistent credit quality.

                                                                                                                         36
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

FIGURE 12

Policy options for mechanisms assessing
credit integrity, when allowing ITMO
use in compliance carbon markets

Source: TBI analysis

Countries could consider mandating the involvement of domestic
businesses in projects in host countries to harness the shared benefits f
this fina ce flowing to the Global South. South Korea and Japan have
already demonstrated this. South Korea requires Korean project developers
to run the international projects accepted into their scheme, while Japan
requires Japanese controlling (greater than 51 per cent) ownership of or
investment in the offs t project itself. In practice this means that a Japanese
company must either co-fund the project, supply technology and expertise,
cover operations and maintenance, or act as a joint venture partner. These
measures help these countries strike a more strategic balance than their
peers.
Singapore and Switzerland, as small countries with limited project
opportunities at home, now focus on international supply. Countries with
abundant natural resources like China and Colombia mandate exclusive
domestic credit origins. Policymakers could require the involvement of their

                                                                                                                         37
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

own businesses in projects abroad. This would protect political interests at
home while fina cing decarbonisation abroad, where it's more cost
effective.

FIGURE 13

Policy options to balance international
and domestic offsets

Source: TBI analysis

Recommendation: Multilateral development banks (MDBs) and sovereign
wealth funds (SWFs) should explore the potential to receive carbon credits
as part of their return on investment.
MDBs, a key source of fina cing for the Global South, and SWFs, another
source of capital from the Global North and Middle East, can fill t e missing
link between existing green project fina ce and further scale for
international carbon markets.
ITMOs in MDB Investments

                                                                                                                         38
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Considering the potential of ITMOs in their investments ­ both concessional
and commercial ­ could help strengthen the case for existing investments
made by MDBs. These investors would be incentivised not just by the
existing business-as-usual yield, but by the option to receive some of the
emissions reductions generated as part of their investment return as ITMOs.
These could then be sold or redistributed to their donor governments (in
MDBs) or the home governments (in SWFs).

These investments could be structured in such a way to satisfy donors wary
of existing Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development rules
on official velopment assistance (ODA), which prohibits the use of ODA
funds for direct benefit o the donor country. Despite ITMO-linked returns
being funded by non-ODA instruments they could still help deliver on
development goals.

ITMOs in SWF Green Debt Investments

SWFs, particularly those with climate mandates like Norway's Government
Pension Fund Global or Norges Bank Investment Management, Singapore's
GIC and the UAE's Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, could explore green
instruments that yield ITMOs. By backing MDB-originated green bonds or
loans that embed access to ITMO flows, they could gain exposure not just
to coupon payments, but to a new class of mitigation assets with some
ITMOs baked into payment structures. These investors could then monetise
these credits to sell to others, transfer them to their host governments or
donors, or simply cancel them as a reputational hedge.

Integrating ITMO transfers into debt-restructuring deals, especially debt-for-
nature (DFN) swaps, also provides innovative new sources of revenue into
such deals. While DFN swaps reduce debt burdens on the basis that new
fiscal sp ce is used to fina ce conservation or other climate projects, ITMO
revenues could either be used to further reduce the debt burden, or act as
an instrument of new fiscal sp ce to dedicate to new, monitored uses.

Pilot to Market

                                                                                                                         39
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Early actions in this vein are already underway. The World Bank's
Transformative Carbon Asset facility and its successor, Scaling Climate
Action by Lowering Emissions (SCALE), aims to deliver carbon credits (and
ITMOs) to donors via results-based fina ce. The Asian Development Bank
too, has the Climate Action Catalyst Fund, providing upfront fina cing to
climate action that will later generate carbon credits that will be returned to
Fund contributors. Switzerland's Klik Foundation, the Norwegian Global
Emission Reduction (NOGER) Initiative, and the Swedish Energy Agency are
well placed to take advantage of these structures, having signed multiple
Article 6 agreements and been early buyers of ITMOs.

But for this to scale, more pilot projects and standardisation will be needed.
Registry linkages, legal templates and sample projects to set precedents will
drive this asset class forward.

EXPLORING THE IMPACT OF ITMOS IN THE EU ETS
Allowing some volume of international units to be used to meet domestic
compliance obligations could be appropriate for all Global North compliance
schemes, but particularly in the world's leading and most credible
emissions-trading scheme: the EU's. Facing fiscal a d political pressure to
loosen its 2040 carbon neutrality target, the EU should consider this
approach. If the bloc addresses key challenges, namely using a cap on
offs t use, strictly monitoring the eligible methodologies and requiring a
share of European project-developer involvement, it could position its
project developers as an exported service industry while also allowing for
equitable ownership with local communities. Doing so would not only
fina ce cost-effective abatement opportunities, but it could also boost
relations with the low- and middle-income countries impacted by its
carbon-border tariff a d deforestation regulation, helping to fina ce the
conservation of their forests and renewable-energy development.

The EU ETS has worked wonders at driving out coal and incentivising the
rollout of renewables, yet as it expands to transport and buildings, member
countries are increasingly asking for breathing room. As cheaper abatement
options are implemented, the marginal cost of the remaining abatement
rises, together with the ETS price. Germany, France, Sweden, Poland and the

                                                                                                                         40
                   INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

            Netherlands are among the member states investigating and supporting
            proposals to allow Article 6 credits to contribute to the EU's climate target of
            reducing emissions by 90 per cent by 2040 (relative to 1990).32
            We built an indicative model33 to demonstrate the effect of allowing ITMOs
            into the EU ETS on ETS prices from 2025 to 2050. Our indicative model
            shows allowing companies to meet up to 5 per cent of their ETS obligations
            through ITMO use could achieve the same abatement at 15.1 per cent lower
            overall cost for EU businesses, as the ETS price is trimmed roughly 12 per
            cent throughout the 2030s and 2040s, while still maintaining the price signal
            of the ETS.

FIGURE 14

Cost savings of 5 per cent ITMO use in the EU
ETS

Source: TBI analysis

To see an interactive version of this graph, please visit https://ets-itmo-model.institute.global/

                                                                                                                                          41
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

With a 3 per cent cap on the use of ITMOs in the EU ETS, as proposed by
the new German coalition government, cumulative compliance costs would
fall by 187 billion ($218 billion) to 2050, a 9.2 per cent discount on the status
quo. With a 10 per cent cap, savings reach almost 600 billion ($698 billion).
Reduce it to 1 per cent and savings shrink to 63 billion ($73 billion).

FIGURE 15

The cumulative savings and risk-
adjusted net benefit of allowing ITMO
use in the EU ETS

Source: TBI analysis

The risk-adjusted net benefit s ows when savings from allowing ITMO use
are still worth more than the risk of blunting the ETS's main job of being a
price signal for decarbonisation (and the impact of this lower price on

                                                                                                                         42
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

decarbonisation in subsequent carbon budgets). The sweet spot in this
case, judged by the risk-adjusted net-benefit cu ve, ETS price signal and
political palatability, lies in the middle at 5 per cent.

FIGURE 16

Cumulative savings and risk-adjusted
net benefit of allowing ITMO use in the
EU ETS

*Net benefit: g oss savings minus squared-risk penalty; penalty coefficient t so that a 25 per cent price cut would wipe out
the entire gain.
Source: TBI analysis

Allowing ITMO use in the EU ETS isn't necessarily a one-way flow of cash to
the Global South. The EU, and any other government considering allowing
ITMO use in their compliance markets, could insist that firms using thi
mechanism hold at least 20 per cent equity in approved mitigation projects.
Even that modest slice would channel an estimated 4 billion ($4.7 billion) to
5 billion ($5.8 billion) a year in export revenues to EU suppliers of
renewables and its equipment, digital MRV, satellite analytics and carbon-
removal kit by the early 2030s. The policy would therefore complement the
bloc's green-industry agenda.

                                                                                                                         43
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

FIGURE 17

EU sectors that could benefit from
ITMO use ownership clause

Source: TBI analysis

The 12 per cent reduction in EU ETS prices under the 5 per cent scenario
would lessen the costs faced by households (via utility bills, which are
subject to near-direct pass-through effect from compliance costs) and by
small manufacturers covered by the scheme.
Integrity matters greatly. Regulators should treat ITMO use as conditional on
robust safeguards:
· Integrity filter: Only ITMOs that align with the Core Carbon Principles and

   secure a corresponding adjustment should count towards compliance.
· Volume lock: Firms should only be able to offs t 5 per cent of their

   emissions through the scheme, with this cap monitored for its impact on
   the ETS price, preventing a repeat of the CDM glut that crashed prices in
   the 2010s.

                                                                                                                         44
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

· Ownership clause: An EU-based company-ownership floor of 20 per
   cent would enhance domestic political support and business
   collaboration.

Policy Recommendations to Fix Supply-Side barriers

Carbon markets represent a large and growing opportunity for countries in
the Global South to access fina ce to fund climate projects, but there are
steps they must take to ensure that they are prepared to harness the
opportunity. Countries that put in place the necessary conditions now to sell
international credits can att act early investment.

SHORT TERM
Recommendation: Clearly set out the path to meeting domestic NDCs, and
the role that carbon markets will play in helping to achieve economic and
development goals.

Governments need a strategy for the role that carbon markets will play in
helping them to meet economic, development and climate objectives. This
will require clarity over plans to meet their own NDCs and their domestic
decarbonisation pathway, including what can be "sold" and what action
needs to be retained to meet a country's own targets. Countries need to
carefully consider the potential trade-offs b tween carbon-market
participation and long-term policies to reach their NDCs as well as balancing
development objectives and climate objectives.

To avoid overselling ITMOs and losing out on opportunities to reach their
own NDCs, host countries could choose to reserve a share of mitigation
outcomes generated by mitigation activity for use towards domestic NDC
achievement. For example, Ghana has specified that all ctivities must
reserve 1 per cent of mitigation outcomes for domestic use, while Indonesia
provides a range of between 10 per cent and 20 per cent for mitigation
activities that are included in the NDC.

                                                                                                                         45
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Setting o t clear objectives, priorities and engagement strategies will help
send the right signals to encourage project developers and the private
sector to invest.
Recommendation: Strengthen domestic frameworks to engage with Article
6 and put in place the necessary policy, regulatory and legal frameworks.
Once countries have set out the role carbon markets will play in meeting
their economic and development goals, they need to build their capacity to
participate in Article 6.
Article 6 presents the opportunity to unlock significant fin cial benefits or
countries in the Global South. However, to support their participation,
countries need to set out robust policy, legal and regulatory frameworks, as
well as monitoring systems. To date, many low-income countries lack the
infrastructure, technology and institutional capacity to participate in carbon
markets, and are yet to set out clear guidelines for project developers.
This requires:
· Setting o t authorisation criteria, including frameworks and templates for

   project developers to understand how projects can obtain authorisation
   ITMOs for use under Article 6
· Defining w ether the government or the project developer owns the
   carbon reductions, who can generate ITMO transactions, and how
   benefits a e shared, to ensure communities involved in mitigation
   activities receive a fair share of revenue
· Developing laws and regulations to govern carbon-market activity
   transactions
· Putting in pl ce a clear plan for how to track and manage transactions
· Providing technical training to build the skills in government need to
   develop, validate and verify carbon-credit projects

                                                                                                                         46
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

· Investing in better data tracking, auditing and verification, i cluding
   potentially leveraging some of the technologies such as AI tools for MAC
   curves, dMRV infrastructure and digital registries, set out in the "Policy
   Recommendations for Technology Adoption" section earlier in this paper

· Setting o t a fee structure for Article 6 for project developers, to manage
   and cover administrative costs incurred by the host country

                                                                                                                         47
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Ghana's Article 6 Policies

Ghana has made significant p ogress in advancing Article 6.2 transactions. It
was the fi st country to launch a framework, develop a national carbon-
market registry, authorise a project and submit an initial report to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change's centralised accounting
and reporting platform.
The country's Carbon Markets Office (CMO) cu ently has 54 mitigation
projects under development, and cooperative approaches agreed with
Switzerland, Sweden, Singapore and South Korea. With the Swiss
government alone, it has executed eight ITMO transactions. Other countries
should look to Ghana's strategy as a model to follow.
Several actions have led to Ghana's success:
· The country has set out a red list of unconditional nationally determined

   contribution (NDC) interventions in its carbon-market framework, making
   it clear to mitigation-outcome buyers that Ghana has no intention of
   double counting their mitigation outcomes.
· Ghana's CMO, hosted by the country's Environmental Protection Agency,
   oversees the implementation of Article 6 activities. It has taken a robust
   institutional approach: the CMO is enshrined in law, which insulates
   projects from political change. The CMO has expansive supervisory,
   regulatory, enforcement and administrative powers.
· There is a committee dedicated to the implementation of Article 6 and
   international carbon-market sales.

                                                                                                                         48
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

· The country has provided project developers with template letters for the
   request, approval and authorisation of transferring ITMOs to ease the
   administrative process.

Recommendation: Mandate finance ministries to collaborate on carbon-
market strategies.
It is critical that the use of international carbon markets serves domestic
economic and development priorities, and fina ce ministries hold the levers
to ensure this is the case. This means that they should take a central role in
developing and overseeing carbon-market strategies, alongside
environment ministries. Finance ministries are also well-positioned to
integrate carbon-market revenue into budgetary planning.
Finance ministries should engage in bilateral ITMO negotiations where their
economic expertise may be able to help secure better terms in bilateral
agreements, inform and assess the economic case for domestic versus
international abatement options, and prevent the undervaluation of
mitigation outcomes.
Kenya has taken significant s eps to empower its fina ce ministry in shaping
carbon-market strategies. For example, in 2021 Kenya's fina ce minister
announced the development of a national carbon-credits and green-assets
registry, centralising and coordinating the strategy development and
delivery. Kenya's fina ce ministry has also been involved in implementing its
NDC and long-term strategies, while considering how to mobilise climate
fina ce and integrate climate considerations into national budgetary
processes.

                                                                                                                         49
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

MEDIUM TERM
Recommendation: Strengthen South-South collaboration to share systems,
knowledge and resources.

Participating in Article 6 requires systems for tracking emissions, approving
projects and ensuring environmental integrity. Building these systems can
be both time consuming and costly. Where possible, low-income countries
should work together to share knowledge and resources. This could include
jointly developing emissions inventories and regional project registries.
Countries could also look to develop regional MRV platforms to reduce
costs.

In addition, countries should consider developing joint carbon-market
strategies, where they work together to avoid a "race to the bottom".

Recommendation: Respond to demand from compliance markets that allow
companies to use a fixed share of ITMOs to meet part of their obligations,
and support the delivery of credits aligned with their standards.

Various jurisdictions around the world are already or currently considering
allowing companies to use international units to meet compliance-market
obligations, as recommended in the section of this report on demand-side
barriers. But governments in the Global South should take note: these
buyers are already, and will likely continue to be, the most consistent and
reliable source of demand. These schemes, when they reach full capacity,
will represent some 115.8 mtCO2 of annual credit demand, or 64 per cent of
total current voluntary-carbon-market demand. Offs t demand grew in 2024
thanks to carbon markets that allow offs t use, with retirements from these
compliance markets representing 24 per cent of retirements in 2024, up
from 9 per cent in 2023.34 This will continue to grow ­ Germany's new
coalition government has committed to achieve 3 per cent of their NDC with
international credits, which would bring this share of the market to 85.2 per
cent, and the EU Commission's proposal for its 2040 targets also now
includes the 3 per cent use of international offs ts. In addition, the Carbon

                                                                                                                         50
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Offs tting a d Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) is due
to become mandatory in 2027, further stretching compliance-market
demand.

FIGURE 18

Size of maximum potential demand for
offsets from compliance markets (tCO2)

Source: TBI analysis

As shown in Figure 19, there are clear preferences for the types of credits
each country is willing to accept. Singapore accepts most types of credits,
but only from certain methodologies. South Korea strongly prefers energy-
related credits. Switzerland only accepts projects on a case-by-case basis,
and has thus far only invested in renewables and transport projects. Japan's
new Green Transformation (GX) League only accepts removals credits. And
the CORSIA is the least selective ­ allowing almost all methodologies.

                                                                                                                          51
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

FIGURE 19

Number of credit methodologies
accepted in compliance schemes

Note: Switzerland's Klik Foundation invests in projects on a case-by-case basis, regardless of category. Their data here
represent the project methodologies they have already invested in.
Source: TBI analysis ­ policymakers are welcome to contact TBI for full dataset.

Governments in the Global South have a clear role to play in enabling
purchases from these buyer countries. Singapore and Japan only accept
projects from countries that their foreign ministries have signed agreements
with, due to the need to ensure a corresponding adjustment is carried out at
a national level. South Korea and Japan both have policies that favour
domestic activities: South Korea requires that international projects have
Korean project developers, and Japan's scheme mandates Japanese-
company ownership of projects.
Recommendation: Develop both emissions reductions and removals
projects in the immediate term while focusing support on the removals
market in the longer term, to align with increasing global demand.
Some companies are turning to high-quality removals credits to meet their
climate goals, but supply can be a challenge. There has been a sharp
increase in demand for removals credits, which now account for

                                                                                                                         52
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

approximately one-third of the market value. McKinsey claims that demand
for durable CDR credits could reach up to 100 Mt CO2 by 2030, double the
50MtCO2 in announced supply,35 as more sectors are looking to enter the
market.
This growth in demand for high-quality removals credits presents an
opportunity that project developers in the Global South should seek to
capitalise on. Governments should support these efforts and build up their
own durable removals capacity by setting o t explicit roles for removals in
their climate strategies. For example, Kenya's Climate Change Act
emphasises removals as well as reductions, and Kenya is now emerging as
a hub for removals projects, including enhanced rock weathering (ERW) and
direct air capture.
In addition, partnerships between international organisations, governments,
private investors and local communities in the Global South, such as the
Global Carbon Removal Partnership (formed during COP27), will be
instrumental in deploying a wide range of carbon-dioxide removal options to
achieve climate objectives.

                                                                                                                         53
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Conclusion

International carbon markets present an opportunity to fund climate action
in the Global South, while helping countries in the Global North achieve their
NDCs at lower cost.
Although progress on international carbon markets has been made, it needs
to go further, faster.
Outstanding issues around integrity, a lack of clear demand-side incentives,
and lack of credible supply mean international carbon markets haven't yet
reached their full potential.
But there are practical steps countries can take to overcome these barriers
­ including harnessing the latest technologies to overcome credibility
concerns, linking compliance markets to ITMOs to stimulate demand, and
building the appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks.
Above all, political leadership is essential. Leaders must ensure they
understand and can clearly communicate the benefits f carbon markets
and take active steps to address political resistance and misperceptions.
It's time for the world to stop debating carbon markets and put in place
steps to scale them.

                                                                                                                         54
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Appendix: Methodology and
Assumptions for the EU Case
Study Model

This model estimates the impact of integrating Internationally Transferred
Mitigation Outcomes (ITMOs) into the EU Emissions Trading System (EU
ETS) through to 2050. It calculates potential cost savings, European Union
Allowance (EUA) price effects and emissions-allowance adjustments under
defi ed scenarios.

Key Assumptions:

· ETS cap begins at 1386 MtCOe in 2025 and reduces annually by ~59.6Mt
   (based on a Linear Reduction Factor (LRF) of 4.3 per cent).

· EUA prices grow at 12.88 per cent annually to 2030 and 1 per cent
   thereafter. This was chosen to peg 2030 and 2050 EUA prices against an
   average of publicly available EU ETS price forecasts (BNEF, Enerdata,
   Veyt).
    Pre- and post-2030 EUA prices are bifurcated because they
       represent different trading phases under the EU ETS, and thus have
       different caps and LRFs.

· ITMO volumes are capped at a fi ed percentage of the ETS cap (for
   instance 5 per cent) and assumed to be lower-cost substitutes, not
   additions. They are assumed to cost 28 ($33) on average, based on an
   average of estimates (Klik Foundation, Swedish Energy Agency, CORSIA
   prices).

· A price-elasticity-based discount (PED) factor (0.881) is applied to
   estimate the effect of ITMOs on EUA prices. The PED (0.27) was selected
   based on recent historical EUA annual average prices and recent verifie
   emissions data (2020 to 2024). A larger sample size returned a different
   PED (0.13) but was based on much more volatile data (2010 to 2024).

                                                                                                                         55
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Scenario Calculations:
· Annual costs are compared between a baseline (no ITMOs) and an

   ITMO-integrated system.
· Metrics include adjusted EUA prices, cost with ITMOs, and annual

   savings.
Risk-Adjusted Net Benefit:
· The "risk-adjusted net benefit", also known as a quadratic loss

   function, was used to optimise the percentage cap of the ITMO usage in
   the ETS.
· It calculates the savings minus the penalty of allowing ITMOs into the
   ETS and its impact on EUA prices. The penalty grows with the square of
   the price drop, to represent that larger price shocks to the EUA weaken
   the price signal disproportionately. The penalty coefficient is t such that
   a 25 per cent EUA price reduction would negate any potential gain.
The model is deterministic and does not include strategic behaviour, policy
feedback or dynamic ITMO pricing. It is intended to support strategic
insights around compliance carbon markets that allow ITMO use, rather than
precise forecasts of EUA prices.

                                                                                                                         56
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

Endnotes

1 htt s://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/solving-the-climate-fina ce-
   equation-for-developing-countries

2 htt s://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2022/05/17/what-you-need-to-know-about-
    article-6-of-the-paris-agreement

3 htt s://www.ieta.org/initiatives/modelling-the-economic-benefit -of-article-6/
4 htt s://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959652622027615
5 htt s://cgs.umd.edu/research-impact/publications/fina cing-indonesias-coal-phase-out-just-

    and-accelerated-retirement
6 htt s://ieefa.org/resources/transition-credits-potential-fina cial-enabler-coal-clean-switch
7 htt s://www.worldbank.org/en/publication/state-and-trends-of-carbon-pricing
8 htt s://www.carbonbrief.org/analysis-95-of-countries-miss-un-deadline-to-

    submit-2035-climate-pledges/
9 htt s://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959652622027615
10 htt s://cgs.umd.edu/research-impact/publications/fina cing-indonesias-coal-phase-out-just-

     and-accelerated-retirement
11 accelerating-the-early-retirement-of-coalfi ed-power-plants-through-carbon-credits--

    sep-2023.pdf
12 htt s://ieefa.org/resources/transition-credits-potential-fina cial-enabler-coal-clean-switch
13 htt s://www.institutmontaigne.org/en/expressions/objectif-2040-de-decarbonation-la-

     strategie-francaise-et-le-risque-dimmobilisme
14 htt s://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/solving-the-climate-fina ce-

     equation-for-developing-countries
15 htt s://unepccc.org/article-6-pipeline/
16 htt s://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/the-seventh-carbon-budget/
17 htt s://unctad.org/publication/least-developed-countries-report-2024

                                                                                                                         57
INTERNATIONAL CARBON MARKETS: CLIMATE ACTION AT A LOWER PRICE

18 htt s://unctad.org/publication/least-developed-countries-report-2024
19 htt s://globalclimateactionpartnership.org/resource/marginal-abatement-cost-tool/
20 htt s://github.com/aj-sykes92/ggmacc
21 http: /www.osemosys.org/
22 htt s://www.transitionzero.org/products/scenario-builder
23 htt s://gmd.copernicus.org/articles/18/1575/2025/
24 htt s://blog.dclimate.net/mrv-the-key-to-unlocking-the-voluntary-carbon-market/
25 htt s://www.cdr.fyi/blog/japans-gx-league-and-carbon-removal-in-gx-ets
26 htt s://www.weforum.org/stories/2025/07/eu-return-to-international-carbon-credits/
27 htt s://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/integrating-greenhouse-gas-removals-in-the-uk-

     emissions-trading-scheme
28 htt s://www.theguardian.com/environment/2023/nov/30/the-new-scramble-for-africa-how-a-

     uae-sheikh-quietly-made-carbon-deals-for-forests-bigger-than-uk
29 htt s://fastcompanyme.com/news/saudi-arabia-signs-deal-to-supply-30-million-tons-of-

     carbon-credits-by-2030/
30 htt s://www.nccs.gov.sg/the-coalition-to-grow-carbon-markets/
31 htt s://www.worldbank.org/en/publication/state-and-trends-of-carbon-pricing
32 htt s://www.reuters.com/sustainability/cop/eu-considering-international-co2-credits-meet-

     new-climate-goal-sources-say-2025-04-07/
33 The methodology for this indicative model can be found in the Appendix at the end of this report.
34 htt s://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/

      e5f6e755-e6a6-4d2c-927a-23b5cc8a9b03
35 htt s://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/sustainability-blog/matching-

     durable-carbon-removals-supply-and-demand-by-2030

                                                                                                                         58
Follow us

facebook.com/instituteglobal
x.com/instituteGC
instagram.com/institutegc

General enquiries

info@institute.global

Copyright © September 2025 by the Tony Blair Institute for Global Change
All rights reserved. Citation, reproduction and or translation of this publication, in whole or in part,
for educational or other non-commertial purposes is authorised provided the source is fully
acknowledged Tony Blair Institute, trading as Tony Blair Institute for Global Change, is a company
limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (registered company number: 10505963)
whose registered office is e Bartholomew Close, London, EC1A 7BL.
