

 
 
FOREST LANDSCAPE RESTORATION IN NORTH 
SULAWESI PROVINCE 
 
Project title 
Forest Landscape Restoration in North Sulawesi Province 
Project ID 
5891 
Crediting period 
26-Sept-2024 to 26-Sept-2064 
Original date of 
issue 
8-January-2026 
Most recent date 
of issue 
24-February-2026 
Version 
1.0 
VCS Standard 
Version 
VCS Standard v4.7  
Prepared by 
Thryve.Earth PTE. LTD. 
 

 
CONTENTS 
1 PROJECT DETAILS 4
 
1.1 Summary Description of the Project 4
 
1.2 Audit History 5
 
1.3 Sectoral Scope and Project Type 5
 
1.4 Project Eligibility 5
 
1.5 Project Design 8
 
1.6 Project Proponent 9
 
1.7 Other Entities Involved in the Project 10
 
1.8 Ownership 10
 
1.9 Project Start Date 11
 
1.10 Project Crediting Period 11
 
1.11 Project Scale and Estimated GHG Emission Reductions or Removals 12 
1.12 Description of the Project Activity 15 
1.13 Project Location 28 
1.14 Conditions Prior to Project Initiation 32
 
1.15 Compliance with Laws, Statutes and Other Regulatory Frameworks 37
 
1.16 Double Counting and Participation under Other GHG Programs 39
 
1.17 Double Claiming, Other Forms of Credit, and Scope 3 Emissions 40 
1.18 Sustainable Development Contributions 42 
1.19 Additional Information Relevant to the Project 43
 
2 SAFEGUARDS AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 45
 
2.1 Stakeholder Engagement and Consultation 45
 
2.2 Risks to Stakeholders and the Environment 62
 
2.3 Respect for Human Rights and Equity 66
 
2.4 Ecosystem Health
 
75
 
3 APPLICATION OF METHODOLOGY 88
 
3.1 Title and Reference of Methodology 88
 
3.2 Applicability of Methodology 89
 
3.3 Project Boundary 94 
3.4 Baseline Scenario 97 
3.5 Additionality 99 
3.6 Methodology Deviations 102
 
4 QUANTIFICATION OF ESTIMATED GHG EMISSION REDUCTIONS AND REMOVALS 102
 
 

 
4.1 Baseline Emissions 102
 
4.2 Project Emissions 105 
4.3 Leakage Emissions 106 
4.4 Estimated GHG Emission Reductions and Carbon Dioxide Removals 110 
4.5 Estimated GHG Emission Reductions and Carbon Dioxide Removals 114 
5 Monitoring 117 
5.1 Data and Parameters Available at Validation 117
 
5.2 Data and Parameters Monitored 121 
5.3 Monitoring Plan 128
 
APPENDIX 1: COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE INFORMATION 142
 
APPENDIX 2: STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 143
 
APPENDIX 3: STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 145 
APPENDIX 4: STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION 152 
APPENDIX 5: STAKEHOLDER DIVERSITY 154 
APPENDIX 6: STAKEHOLDER ONGOING COMMUNICATION 155 
APPENDIX 7: ENDANGERED AND CRITICALLY ENDANGERED FAUNA 156 
 
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
1 PROJECT DETAILS 
1.1 Summary Description of the Project 
The "Forest Landscape Restoration in North Sulawesi Province" project in Indonesia, in the 
eastern seaboard of North Sulawesi, aims to enrich and restore 6,000 hectares of degraded and 
deforested land, with the potential to expand to 10,000 hectares. The project will work with 
smallholder and local community farmers to implement a diverse mix of agroforestry and 
reforestation models tailored to local conditions and needs. 
The project is located within the tropical rainforest ecosystem in Indonesia's North Sulawesi 
Province, 1°15'0.00" N; 124°49'59.99" E. The region has experienced severe degradation from 
monocultures and slash-and-burn practices, leading to soil infertility, reduced forest cover, and 
fire-prone grasses that stall natural regrowth and segment wildlife habitats. 
Through agroforestry-based plantations and targeted reforestation efforts, the project will 
support smallholders in reviving farmland and restoring forests, ultimately improving livelihoods 
and protecting biodiversity. Farmers receive training in regenerative methods (e.g., intercropping 
native timber and fruit species), access to high-value saplings, and implementing soil 
revitalisation techniques. By placing community leadership at the centre of these initiatives, the 
project enhances climate resilience, prevents additional deforestation, and fosters a sustainable 
future for local ecosystems. 
Stakeholder engagement is central to the project’s success. It will involve Thryve.Earth, the 
Implementation partners (like Masarang Foundation and others) , landowners, government 
entities, community leaders, traditional authorities, local communities (including youth, women, 
and marginalized groups), research institutions, and financiers. 
Over a project-crediting period of 40 years, the project's key outcomes are to sequester over 
6.35 million tCO2e (approximately an annual average of 158,764 tCO2e emission reductions), 
improve biodiversity, and enhance the livelihoods of participating households and local 
communities. This will provide participants and communities access to diverse income streams 
and contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation, livelihood improvement, and 
biodiversity conservation.  
Additionally, by integrating reforestation and regenerative agricultural practices in line with key 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the project lays a strong foundation for scaling these 
approaches across similar landscapes. This scaling is crucial for expanding the project's impact 
region-wide, fostering greater climate resilience, enhancing biodiversity, and promoting inclusive 
rural development. North Sulawesi’s deforested and degraded lands—once part of the Wallacea 
biodiversity hotspot—offer a unique opportunity for large-scale emission removals, 
4
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
climate-change mitigation, sustainable land management, and improved socio-ecological 
resilience.  
1.2 Audit History  
This section is not applicable yet at this stage. Therefore, it will be updated once the project 
undergoes Validation or Verification. 
 
Audit type Period Program Validation/verificati
on body name 
Number of years 
Validation 
The project 
aims to get get 
validated in Q3 
2026 
VCS Not applicable at the 
moment and will be 
defined once the 
project is under 
validation 
NA 
 ...    
1.3 Sectoral Scope and Project Type 
Sectoral scope  
Scope 14, Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) 
AFOLU project 
category
1
  
Afforestation, Reforestation and Revegetation (ARR) 
Project activity 
type 
Reforestation and Agroforestry plantations using native and naturalised 
species suited to the ecoregion and project location 
1.4 Project Eligibility 
1.4.1 General eligibility 
The project aligns with the scope of the VCS Program as it involves ARR activities, which are 
eligible under the program. The project's activities are not listed under exclusions in Table 2.1 of 
the VCS Standard, v4.7. Specifically, the project restores degraded lands through sustainable 
land-use practices, including establishing plantations in an agroforestry model. These 
plantations incorporate a mix of high-value native species, commercial fruit trees, timber 
species, and non-timber forest products, contributing to biodiversity restoration and enhanced 
1
 See Appendix 1 of the VCS Standard 
5
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
ecosystem services. By integrating agroforestry practices, the project generates measurable 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions and carbon removals, which fall within the eligible 
project activity categories under the VCS Program. 
The project activities remove CO
2
, which is listed among the seven Kyoto Protocol greenhouse 
gases. This is supported by the methodology VM0047, ‘Methodology for Afforestation, 
Reforestation, and Revegetation’ v1.1. The project complies with all VCS program rules and 
requirements stated in the following documents:  
● VCS Standard, v4.7 
● VCS Program Guide v4.4 
● VCS Registration and Issuance Process, v4.6  
● AFOLU Non-Permanence Risk Tool, v4.2 
As per sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 of the VCS Standard v4.7, the eligibility criteria of the project 
under the scope of the VCS Program have been demonstrated in the table below. 
Table 1. The eligibility criteria of the project under the scope of the VCS Program  
VCS Program Scope Applicable? (Yes/No) Justification 
1. The Seven Kyoto 
Protocol Greenhouse 
Gases (GHG) 
Yes 
The project activity sequesters carbon 
dioxide (CO
2
) by establishing agroforestry 
systems on degraded lands. CO
2
 is one of 
the seven significant gases identified by 
the Kyoto Protocol 
2. Project activities 
supported by a 
methodology 
approved under the 
VCS Program through 
the methodology 
approval process.  
Yes 
The project applies the VCS methodology 
VM0047: Afforestation, Reforestation and 
Revegetation, v1.0, ensuring compliance 
with the VCS Program for carbon 
accounting 
3. Project activities 
supported by a 
methodology 
approved under a 
VCS-approved GHG 
program, unless 
explicitly excluded 
under the terms of 
Verra approval. 
Yes 
VM0047 supports the project activities 
Afforestation, Reforestation, and 
Revegetation v1.0 and is not explicitly 
excluded under the terms of Verra 
approval. 
6
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
4. Jurisdictional REDD+ 
programs and nested 
REDD+ projects as set 
out in the Jurisdictional 
and Nested REDD+ 
(JNR) Requirements.  
No 
The project’s key activity is restoring 
degraded lands through regenerative 
agroforestry and is not eligible or part of 
the Jurisdiction REDD+ or Nested REDD+ 
project criteria.  
5. The scope of the VCS 
Program excludes 
projects that can be 
reasonably assumed 
to have generated 
GHG emissions 
primarily for their 
subsequent reduction, 
removal or destruction.  
No 
The project takes place on degraded 
agricultural farms and landscapes. It does 
not aim to clear any native ecosystems but 
to generate CO
2 
emissions removals 
through agroforestry.  
6. Ozone-depleting 
substances 
No 
The project activity does not involve or use 
ozone-depleting substances; it applies 
regenerative agroforestry practices to 
improve landscapes and ecosystems' soil 
health and resilience.  
 
1.4.2 AFOLU project eligibility 
 
Table 2. The eligibility criteria of the project under AFOLU 
Eligibility Criteria Justification 
Eligible ARR activities are those that 
increase carbon sequestration and/or 
reduce GHG emissions by establishing, 
increasing, or restoring vegetative cover 
(forest or non-forest) through the planting, 
sowing or human-assisted natural 
regeneration of woody vegetation. 
The project proposed is an ARR project that implements 
regenerative agroforestry models using tree species that 
are native or naturalised to the area on degraded 
farmlands and degraded landscapes to sequester carbon 
dioxide and improve the resistance of the landscapes. 
The project area shall not be cleared of 
native ecosystems within 10 years before 
the project start date. 
The project activity occurs on degraded farm and 
agricultural lands and other landscapes degraded by 
unsustainable agricultural practices. The native forest 
ecosystems on this land have not been cleared within 10 
years of the project. This has been demonstrated 
7
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Eligibility Criteria Justification 
through historical land use analysis and landowner 
surveys. 
Provide evidence that native ecosystems 
have not been converted, cleared, drained, 
or degraded to generate GHG credits in 
Section 2.4.3 below. 
The project area mainly consists of degraded agricultural 
lands and agricultural fallow land with no or minimal 
woody vegetation. Therefore, GHG credits were not 
generated by converting, clearing, draining, or degrading 
the native ecosystems. Historical land use analysis 
confirms this. The agroforestry systems the project 
implements ensure that soils are regenerated, further 
enhancing the ecosystems. 
For ARR, ALM, WRC, or ACoGS project 
areas, provide evidence that clearing or 
conversion did not take place within 10 
years of the project start date in Section 
2.4.3 below. 
No clearing and conversion have occurred within 10 
years, as demonstrated by LULC maps. 
Figure 1: Project area eligibility
 
1.4.3 Transfer project eligibility 
 The project is not a transfer project; therefore, this section is not applicable. 
1.5 Project Design 
Indicate if the project has been designed as:  
8
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
☐  Single location or installation 
☐  Multiple locations or project activity instances (but not a grouped project) 
☒  Grouped project 
1.5.1 Grouped project design 
The project has been designed as a group project to allow new project activity instances to be 
added after validation based on the New Project Activity Instance Eligibility Criteria as described 
in section 3.6.16 and the Inclusion of New Project Activity Instances specified in section 3.6.17 
of the VCS Standard v4.7. 
● The new project activity instances will comply with all applicability conditions outlined in 
the applied methodology VM0047 v.1.1, ensuring alignment with the methodology's 
scope and objectives. 
● All new project instances will adopt the same agroforestry plantation activities and 
measures specified in the initial project description, including native species plantations 
and biochar integration. 
● As defined in the project description, the baseline scenario is based on historical 
land-use data and degradation levels within the identified geographic areas for every 
new project instance. 
● All new instances will maintain consistency with the initial cases regarding fin ancial, 
technical, and ecological parameters. They will face similar barriers to ensure 
additionality, such as degraded land conditions and resource constraints. 
1.6 Project Proponent 
Organization 
name 
Thryve.Earth PTE LTD 
Contact person 
Ron Steinherz  
Title 
CPO 
Address 
72 Circular Road, #02-01, Singapore 049426 
Telephone 
+972 54 4545628  
Email 
ron@thryve.earth,, prabhakar@thryve.earth  
 
Organization 
name 
PT Thryve.Earth Indonesia 
Contact person 
Pranab Prakash 
9
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Title 
Director 
Address 
The City Tower Building, 12th Floor, Unit IN, JI. M.H. Thamrin No. 81, 
Menteng Sub-district, Menteng District, Central Jakarta City, DKI Jakarta 
Province, 10310 
Telephone 
+62 815 2568 610 
Email 
pranab@thryve.earth  
1.7 Other Entities Involved in the Project 
Organization 
name 
Masarang Foundation 
Role in the 
project 
Project Implementation Partner 
Contact person 
Aulia Reinozha Akbar 
Title 
Executive Director 
Address 
JI. Nimawanua Amphiteater, Kelurahan Woloan Satu Utara, Kec. Tomohon 
Barat, Kota Tomohon, North Sulawesi 
Telephone 
+62 821 8260 0420 
Email 
reinozha@masarangfoundation.org  
 
1.8 Ownership 
The project primarily takes place in lands owned by smallholder farmers who, upon consenting 
to and signing the agreements, grant Thryve.Earth PTE. LTD. and the local subsidiary of PT 
Thryve.Earth Indonesia, as the project proponent, has access, rights, and all associated 
authorities to control and operate project activities and claim ownership of the carbon credits 
generated by the project throughout its entire lifespan. All this is done per the relevant local and 
national laws. The permissions granted by the agreement comply with the requirements of VCS 
Standard v4.7, section 3.7.1, ensuring the project proponent complies with all the legal 
requirements of the criteria for project ownership.  
1. The agreement provides project ownership under law and contractual rights, following 
VCS Standard v4.7, 3.7.1(4). 
2. The agreement ensures an enforceable and irrevocable right under VCS Standard v4.7, 
Section 3.7.1(6). The landowners explicitly guarantee that all GHG emission reductions or 
removals resulting from plantation activities under the project will exclusively belong to 
the project proponents, prohibiting any transfer or sale of these rights to third parties.  
10
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
3. The project proponents hold overall control and responsibility for project activities, 
including verification, auditing, issuance, and trading of carbon credits. The agreement 
prevents any violation of stakeholder rights and ensures compliance with all applicable 
legal and regulatory frameworks. 
4. The landowners have committed that no prior GHG reductions or removals from the land 
have been generated or sold, nor will they sell any in the future to any party other than PT 
Thryve.Earth Indonesia. This commitment ensures alignment with VCS Standard v4.7, 
Section 3.7.1(6). 
This comprehensive and enforceable framework ensures that Thryve.Earth PTE. LTD. and PT 
Thryve.Earth Indonesia retains exclusive project ownership and control throughout the project's 
lifespan, fully complying with the VCS Program requirements.
 
1.9 Project Start Date 
Project start 
date  
26-September-2024 
Justification  
The project start date is the scheduled date for when the site 
preparation for plantation activity commences; this aligns with VM0047 
v1.1 where project start date is initiated by direct and/or indirect planting 
activities.  
1.10 Project Crediting Period 
Crediting period 
☐ Seven years, twice renewable 
☐ Ten years, fixed 
☒ Other (40 years, according to the VCS Standard, 4.7 section 3.9.3, the 
project crediting period conforms with the VCS Program requirements) 
Start and end 
date of first or 
fixed crediting 
period  
26-September-2024 to 31-Dec-2064 
 
1.11 Project Scale and Estimated GHG Emission Reductions or Removals 
Indicate the estimated annual GHG emission reductions/removals (ERRs) of the project: 
☒ < 300,000 tCO2e/year (project) 
11
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
☐ ≥ 300,000 tCO2e/year (large project) 
Calendar year of crediting period 
Estimated GHG emission reductions or 
removals (tCO
2
e) 
01-January-2025 to 31-December-2025  
(2,992) 
01-January-2026 to 31-December-2026  
(8,976) 
01-January-2027 to 31-December-2027 
274 
01-January-2028 to 31-December-2028 
60,614 
01-January-2029 to 31-December-2029 
155,766 
01-January-2030 to 31-December-2030 
321,827 
01-January-2031 to 31-December-2031 
361,848 
01-January-2032 to 31-December-2032 
405,410 
01-January-2033 to 31-December-2033 
530,676 
01-January-2034 to 31-December-2034 
584,198 
01-January-2035 to 31-December-2035 
577,371 
01-January-2036 to 31-December-2036 
499,556 
01-January-2037 to 31-December-2037 
385,808 
01-January-2038 to 31-December-2038 
209,160 
01-January-2039 to 31-December-2039 
112,897 
01-January-2040 to 31-December-2040 
98,449 
01-January-2041 to 31-December-2041 
99,722 
01-January-2042 to 31-December-2042 
99,163 
01-January-2043 to 31-December-2043 
95,028 
01-January-2044 to 31-December-2044 
95,034 
01-January-2045 to 31-December-2045 
96,315 
01-January-2046 to 31-December-2046 
94,224 
01-January-2047 to 31-December-2047 
86,917 
01-January-2048 to 31-December-2048 
76,034 
01-January-2049 to 31-December-2049 
72,819 
01-January-2050 to 31-December-2050 
74,124 
12
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Calendar year of crediting period 
Estimated GHG emission reductions or 
removals (tCO
2
e) 
01-January-2051 to 31-December-2051 
75,426 
01-January-2052 to 31-December-2052 
76,723 
01-January-2053 to 31-December-2053 
78,016 
01-January-2054 to 31-December-2054 
79,304 
01-January-2055 to 31-December-2055 
80,587 
01-January-2056 to 31-December-2056 
81,865 
01-January-2057 to 31-December-2057 
83,139 
01-January-2058 to 31-December-2058 
84,407 
01-January-2059 to 31-December-2059 85,669 
01-January-2060 to 31-December-2060 86,927 
01-January-2061 to 31-December-2061 88,179 
01-January-2062 to 31-December-2062 89,425 
01-January-2063 to 31-December-2063 90,665 
01-January-2064 to 31-December-2064 88,983 
Total estimated ERRs during the first or 
fixed crediting period 
6,350,581 
Total number of years 40 years 
Average annual ERRs 158,764  
13
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
Figure 2 – Annual GHG emission reductions/removals, 2025–2064 (t CO₂e): From 2025–2027 the project yields no credited 
benefit, then ramps sharply, peaking at approximately 584 kt CO₂e yr⁻¹ in 2034. Annual reductions decline steadily through 
the late 2030s and 2040s, before stabilising in the range of ~75–100 kt CO₂e yr⁻¹ for the remainder of the crediting period, 
reflecting a strongly front-loaded performance profile. 
 
Figure 3 – Cumulative GHG emission reductions/removals, 2025–2064 (million t CO₂e): The cumulative curve climbs slowly 
at first, then accelerates during the high-yield 2030s, crossing ~3 Mt CO₂e by 2034. Growth flattens thereafter, approaching 
the programme’s 6.35 Mt CO₂e lifetime total by 2064.
 
14
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
1.12 Description of the Project Activity 
North Sulawesi has experienced profound human-driven transformation, with escalating 
pressures on forests, expanding agricultural frontiers, and deepening land degradation. These 
trends reduce habitat quality, intensify biodiversity and climate challenges, and raise 
socio-economic risks for local communities. To reverse these baseline conditions, the project 
adopts an integrated, community-driven reforestation and agroforestry approach which 
regenerates degraded lands, conserves biodiversity, and cultivates more sustainable livelihoods. 
By fostering robust governance mechanisms, opening diverse market pathways, and prioritizing 
inclusive decision-making, this initiative addresses immediate threats such as deforestation and 
land degradation while also supporting cultural traditions and enhancing the region’s ability to 
adapt to shifting climate and economic realities.
 
Project goals and objectives 
The project specifically seeks to revitalise degraded landscapes through climate-resilient 
multi-functional planting schemes, empower local communities with skill development and 
expanded livelihood options, and reinvigorate key ecological processes such as pollination, seed 
dispersal, and carbon storage. Unlike conventional tree-planting efforts, this initiative 
emphasises fire-resistant ecosystems, diversified agroforestry—including fruit-bearing and 
forestry species—alongside annual crops, and strong local governance structures. By integrating 
these elements, the project aims to stabilise rural incomes, reinforce ecosystem integrity, and 
align with broader climate commitments. Ultimately, the goal is to translate enhanced ecosystem 
health into resilient, sustainable livelihoods that can serve as a replicable model for the region. 
The specific objectives supporting this vision are outlined below. 
(a) Restoration and agroforestry:  
- Reforest degraded lands: A central goal is to rehabilitate lands afflicted by poor soil 
fertility, sparse vegetation, and recurrent fire outbreaks. By introducing climate-resilient, 
multi-tier planting on underutilised or bare parcels—where existing biomass stands at 
only 10% of that found in intact forests—the project aims to establish 
carbon-sequestering, fire-resistant, and ecologically stable landscapes. Over time, 
enriched root systems and layered canopies will increase soil quality and productivity, 
boost both above- and below-ground biomass, and reestablish forest habitats in areas 
that were historically forested, thereby supporting the region’s native biodiversity and 
long-term ecological balance. 
- Agroforestry in homogenous farmlands: Currently, many local farmers rely on 
single-crop cultivation that depletes soil health and offers limited protection against 
market or climate shocks. The project proposes a systemic shift to diversified 
agroforestry designs, wherein annual and perennial crops are grown alongside trees that 
15
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
provide shade, nutrients, and additional products (e.g., palm sugar, timber, medicinal 
plants). In addition to curbing soil erosion and enhancing carbon sequestration, these 
integrated systems allow farmers to tap new value chains—thereby solidifying both 
short- and long-term sources of income. 
- Biochar implementation: To further improve carbon stocks, improve soil fertility, and 
support climate-change mitigation efforts, the project aims to introduce biochar 
production across all suitable plots. 
 
(b) Climate adaptation and biodiversity conservation 
- Reduce fire risk and enhance resilience: Frequent fires in grasslands dominated by 
highly flammable grass species deplete natural biomass, release substantial carbon, and  
undermine crop productivity. By establishing trees and perennial vegetation in these 
vulnerable zones, the project aims to form fire-resistant landscapes that signific antly 
reduce the prevalence of uncontrolled burns. Beyond curbing greenhouse-gas 
emissions, this shift expands carbon storage through new canopy cover and fosters 
more reliable agricultural production. In the long run, local communities benefit from 
lower fire risks, while reforested plots support healthier soils and stabilise local 
microclimates. 
- Improving biodiversity and ecosystem services: Beyond mitigating wildfir e risks, 
transitioning from single-crop farming to diversified agroforestry revitalises soils, 
enhances water retention, and establishes healthier habitats for wildlife. As varied tree 
species and understorey crops take root on once-degraded lands, key ecological 
processes such as pollination, seed dispersal, and pest control gradually recover. This 
transformation stabilises slopes, strengthens watershed protection, and increases 
resilience to heavy rainfall or periodic drought. By creating greater habitat complexity 
and connectivity, the project also supports local biodiversity and safeguards species that 
depend on continuous or semi-intact forest canopies. 
- Reducing deforestation and grassland expansion: By implementing reforestation and 
agroforestry, the project seeks to limit further forest loss, reduce topsoil erosion, and 
reestablish wildlife corridors. At the same time, it creates alternative and supplementary 
livelihood options that help minimise the need to expand agriculture into forested areas. 
This blend of conservation and enhanced local incomes is designed to stabilise 
landscapes while discouraging additional land conversion. 
- Alleviating vulnerabilities: Deforestation and unprotected slopes heighten the risk of 
landslides, flooding, and water shortages. Expanded tree canopies and root systems will 
act as natural safeguards—slowing water run-off, capturing sediments, and maintaining 
more consistent water flow. Combined with improved land practices, these measures 
help rural areas cope more effectively with extreme weather events and shifting climate 
conditions. 
16
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
- Enhance climate adaptation and mitigation: By coupling reduced fire intensity, 
heightened carbon sequestration, and ecosystem restoration, the project delivers 
multifaceted benefits in climate adaptation and mitigation. Reforested or 
agroforestry-based landscapes act as essential carbon sinks, lowering net GHG 
emissions while adding climate resilience. As soils accumulate organic matter and 
aboveground biomass expands, greenhouse-gas absorption rises correspondingly, 
aligning with broader climate commitments at both local and international scales.  
 
(c) Socio-economic benefits 
- Diversified income: Many rural households currently depend on a narrow range of crops 
(e.g., coconut or cloves), which are subject to volatile markets and declining yields. The 
introduction of multi-cropping systems and perennial agroforestry species aims to 
expand farmers’ income portfolios—combining timber, fruit, spices, and supplemental 
livestock or fish farming. By reducing reliance on a single commodity, farmers can attain 
greater economic stability and improved food security 
- Improved sustainable livelihood options: The region has historically lacked viable 
alternatives for farmers beyond conventional single-crop farming, resulting in chronic 
underemployment and stagnant local economies. Through integrated agroforestry and 
supportive value chains (e.g., marketing and processing of palm sugar, timber, or honey), 
this project can broaden employment opportunities, reinforce local entrepreneurism, and 
lay the groundwork for emerging eco-industries. 
- Education and skill development: To adopt regenerative agricultural practices 
successfully, communities require the knowledge and skills essential for implementing 
best practices. The project, therefore, commits to delivering vocational training and 
technical workshops to farmers, community groups, and other stakeholders. Topics will 
include agroforestry plot design, biochar production, sustainable pest management, and 
financial planning. By fortifying these skill sets, the initiative ensures long-lasting 
changes in land-use behavior. 
- Facilitating access to financial support: Transforming degraded fields into resilient 
agroforestry systems typically demands upfront investment in seeds, materials, or labor. 
Many rural residents, however, lack formal credit access or are deterred by high interest 
rates. The project strategy involves fostering microfin ance or cooperative models, 
attracting social investment, or leveraging carbon credit revenues (where feasible) to 
assist farmers in bridging the initial cost gap. This financial empowerment is critical for 
enabling the widespread adoption of regenerative methods. 
Theory of Change  
17
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
The mixed agricultural–forest landscape of North Sulawesi has experienced signific ant 
degradation, nutrient depletion, grass invasion, declining yields and heightened exposure to 
drought, wildfire and market volatility, all driven by prolonged reliance on short fallow cycles, 
slash‑and‑burn clearing and minimal soil conservation. These dynamics have reduced 
smallholder productivity and eroded livelihood stability.  
The Sulawesi ARR initiative addresses this degradation through a community‑based programme 
that integrates afforestation, reforestation and agroforestry across 6,000 ha of privately held 
and communal land spanning areas towards the eastern coast of North Sulawesi and adjoining 
areas of Gorontalo. Over a 5‑year implementation window the project will introduce phased 
plantings of native tree species, market‑oriented fruit trees, crop annuals, and nitrogen‑fixing 
pioneers into active cropland and long‑idle degraded lands. The anticipated results are (i) the 
establishment of self‑maintaining forest cover on formerly degraded sites, (ii) restoration of key 
ecological functions—especially water regulation and habitat connectivity, (iii) increased 
household resilience to climatic and price shocks, and (iv) the creation of diversified, enduring 
income streams through timber, non‑timber products and carbon revenues. The specific 
interventions, interconnected activities, and the actors responsible are summarised in the table 
below.  
Table 3.  Major project activities 
Objectives Component Activity Results 
Carbon, Socio- 
economic 
Farmer 
onboarding and 
community 
mobilization 
● Conduct community outreach 
programmes to educate farmers 
about benefits of agroforestry 
systems 
● Facilitate participatory planning 
sessions with farmers to ensure 
their alignment and commitment 
to the project  
● Collaborate closely with the 
community-based organisations 
for collective decision-making, 
knowledge sharing and 
implementation support 
Farmers are 
onboarded to the 
project. Community 
members are 
involved in the 
consent-based 
decision processes.  
Carbon Design and 
implementation 
of agroforestry 
systems 
● Conduct iterative planning and 
design processes, incorporating 
socioeconomic, biophysical and 
species-specific factors 
● Incorporate 
drought-tolerant/resistant species 
and climate-resilient designs to 
withstand and  
● Implement fertilisers with biochar 
to improve soil health, fertility and 
carbon storage 
Agroforestry design 
processes are 
continuously 
improved, and more 
ecosystem-suitable 
species are included. 
Biochar application is 
expanded. 
18
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Objectives Component Activity Results 
● Create a mix of tree and crop 
species that are best suited to 
local ecosystems (native and 
naturalised species) ensuring 
ecological restoration 
Socio-economi
c 
Capacity 
building for 
farmers 
● Conduct comprehensive training 
on climate-resilient agricultural 
practices, including regenerative 
agroforestry techniques and 
regenerative soil management.  
● Provide hands-on guidance for 
managing plantations, maintaining 
soil health and optimising water 
use 
● Organise workshops on harvesting 
produce, processing, and selling 
agroforestry products 
Community 
members implement 
knowledge shared 
regarding 
agroforestry systems 
and climate-resilient 
& sustainable 
agriculture practices 
in capacity-building 
initiatives and 
community 
engagements.  
Carbon Nursery 
development 
and seedling 
distribution 
● Map areas and assess 
requirements for seedlings 
● Establish nurseries for producing 
diverse, high-value, and native 
seedlings 
● Distribute seedlings to farmers 
and assist with plantation efforts 
The mapped areas 
that have been 
evaluated will receive 
a diversity of 
seedlings from the 
nurseries that are 
supported by these 
areas. The seedlings 
will be distributed to 
support the efforts 
of farmers. 
Carbon Plantation 
(Including 
Mortality 
Replacement)  
● Conduct plantation activities and 
implement strategies for replacing 
failed saplings to maintain target 
survival rates  
The target survival 
rates are maintained 
by replacing the 
saplings that do not 
survive in a timely 
manner 
Biodiversity Biodiversity 
Enhancement 
● Enhancing agricultural biodiversity 
through apiculture and 
regenerative agroforestry using 
diversified species 
● Establishing biodiversity corridors 
- from fragmented habitats to 
connected ecosystems and 
wildlife habitats 
● Rehabilitating grasslands - from 
slash-and-burn & leave fallow 
practices, recurrent fires to 
reforested and/or 
agroforestry-managed landscapes  
Biodiversity thrives 
as natural habitats 
and ecosystems are 
restored. A balanced 
ecosystem allows 
each species to play 
its role, leading to 
improved soil-health, 
and greater 
climate-resilience. 
19
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Objectives Component Activity Results 
Socio- 
economic 
Value chain 
development 
● Identify market opportunities for 
high-value crops, and NTFPs 
● Facilitate partnerships with buyers, 
community-based organisations 
and cooperatives to ensure fair 
pricing and consistent market 
access 
● Develop branding and marketing 
strategies for agroforestry 
products  
Access to markets 
and the resulting 
revenue generated 
from crops and 
NTFPs provides 
employment and 
alternative income 
sources for both 
farmers and 
community 
members. 
 
Carbon, Socio- 
economic, 
Biodiversity 
Monitoring, 
evaluation and 
iterative 
improvement  
● Establish robust monitoring 
systems to track plantation 
growth, soil health, and farmer 
income 
● Use iterative methodologies to 
adapt agroforestry designs based 
on feedback from farmers and 
monitoring data 
● Measure long-term outcomes 
such as improved soil fertility, 
increased biodiversity and 
enhanced farmer livelihoods 
The project will be 
iteratively improved 
by tracking 
plantation growth 
(mortality, tree 
height, diameter, 
canopy cover, yield of 
agroforestry 
products), soil health, 
soil fertility, 
biodiversity and 
farmer livelihood 
improvements using 
the established 
monitoring system. 
 
 
Figure 4: Forest landscape restoration in North Sulawesi, Indonesia project - Theory of change framework
 
 
20
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Project activities and design  
Intervention: Agroforestry and reforestation  
The project’s strategy comprises two primary activities: agroforestry and afforestation in 
existing croplands and reforestation, coupled with biomass and species enrichment, in 
deforested or otherwise non-agricultural lands.  
Agroforestry-afforestation: Implemented in existing cultivated or fallow farmlands. Here, 
farmers transition from single-crop fields to multi-strata plots that combine short-cycle crops, 
such as vegetables or tubers, with perennial species, including fruit trees, spice crops, and 
forestry saplings. By preserving active crop production while gradually establishing a multi-layer 
canopy, this approach stabilises soil, enhances carbon sequestration, and generates more 
reliable income year-round. Farmer field schools supply practical instruction on selecting 
complementary trees–crop mixes and on managing interactions between annual and perennial 
species. This ensures that near-term yields align with long-term ecological gains. Additionally, 
the project will implement biochar production with an estimated potential of 2-3t CO2e/ha/yr 
across all systems, further enhancing soil fertility and carbon sequestration capacity. 
Reforestation-enrichment:  Focus on reforestation and enrichment of areas where forests have 
been lost or severely diminished, often through slash-and-burn, frequent fires, or long periods of 
fallowing. Reforestation efforts introduce native or locally adapted tree species in clustered 
plantings that promote natural regeneration, forming corridors conducive to wildlife movement. 
Enrichment planting adds valuable trees and understory vegetation to further improve soil 
structure, habitat diversity, and the potential for collecting non-timber forest products. 
In both intervention models, local communities serve as stewards of each site, taking part in 
species selection, firebreak creation, and seedling survival monitoring. By ensuring profitability 
through short-term farm outputs and longer-term ecosystem services, the project secures local 
buy-in and reduces the likelihood of future land clearing. 
Criteria for plantation design  
We applied a three-part standard to guide both agroforestry and reforestation: productivity, 
sustainability, and adoptability. Productivity focuses on meeting immediate and long-term 
needs, sustainability prevents further land degradation, and adoptability ensures that local 
communities can feasibly implement these approaches. Below is an overview of each criterion 
and its implications. 
- Productivity: Any system—whether an agroforestry plot or a reforested parcel—must 
improve yields or outputs meaningful to local farmers and land owners. Agroforestry 
designs should combine annual and perennial species to offer both immediate (food, 
fodder, cash crops) and longer-term products. In reforestation sites, restoring forest 
21
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
structure can yield secondary benefits such as non-timber forest products (NTFPs), 
watershed services, or potential carbon revenues. 
- Sustainability: Production goals—be they agricultural or ecological—must be achieved 
without depleting the land resource base. Where degradation has already occurred (e.g., 
erosion, nutrient depletion, repeated fires), reforestation and agroforestry should reverse 
these impacts and re-establish a sustainable yield model. Species and management 
practices should build soil fertility, stabilise slopes, enrich local biodiversity, and preserve 
or enhance hydrological functions in the long term. 
- Adoptability: Techniques must be feasible for local stakeholders, aligning with their 
resources, cultural practices, and market access. Farmers and communities must 
understand and value the proposed methods, whether for increased food production, 
future timber harvests, or the restoration of degraded lands. Training, extension services, 
and the integration of traditional knowledge help ensure widespread acceptance and 
maintenance of both agroforestry and reforestation systems. 
 
Species selection process  
The project follows a multi-step, iterative species selection process that combines spatial 
analysis, ecological functionality, and community preferences to ensure site-specific relevance 
and long-term success. 
We begin with a landscape-level GIS analysis to produce eligibility maps, incorporating factors 
such as land tenure, historical land use, and proximity to existing forest patches. This is followed 
by site-level suitability mapping based on slope, soil type, rainfall, and erosion risk. These maps 
inform which areas are best suited for agroforestry versus reforestation or enrichment planting. 
Once eligible zones are identified, the team overlays a shortlist of species categorized by their 
ecological function (e.g., nitrogen fixation, erosion control, shade provision) and local 
socio-economic value (e.g., fruit trees, timber, non-timber forest products). This approach 
ensures that each selected species contributes to both restoration goals and farmer livelihoods. 
Model planting layouts are then developed that integrate short-cycle annuals, medium-term 
perennials, and long-lived forestry trees. These layouts are tailored to micro-site conditions 
while reflecting farmer capacity and market access. 
Finally, pilot plots are established in selected areas to test design performance in real field 
conditions. Feedback from these pilots—collected through farmer interviews, survival rate 
monitoring, and growth assessments—is used to refine species mixes and management 
practices. This feedback loop ensures that the final systems are productive, sustainable, locally 
adoptable, and climate resilient. 
22
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
Figure 5: A four-step framework illustrating how the project moves from a landscape-level analysis (Step 1) and the 
identification of key ecosystem functions (Step 2) to species selection and planting layout (Step 3), followed by 
real-world testing and refinement (Step 4)
 
The core species portfolio includes 16 native or naturalised species comprising Paraserianthes 
falcataria, Azadirachta indica, Gliricidia sepium, Anthocephalus macrophyllus, Swietenia 
mahagoni, Arenga pinnata, Artocarpus heterophyllus, Carica papaya, Musa acuminata, Myristica 
fragrans, Coffea arabica, Durio zibethinus, Magnolia champaca, Persea americana, Palaquium 
obovatum, Tectona grandis.  Each species serves a role in diversifying agricultural portfolios, 
suppressing invasive grasses, and rebuilding ecosystem connectivity.  
 
23
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Table 4. A comparative overview of selected species highlighting their ecological and economic 
contributions 
 Species list Ecological value Economic value 
1 
Paraserianthes 
falcataria 
Nitrogen fixation, carbon 
sequestration (high), erosion 
control 
Pioneer species, rapid canopy 
establishment, soil improvement 
2 
Azadirachta 
indica 
Pest regulation, soil 
stabilization, carbon storage 
Natural pesticide, drought 
tolerance, medicinal properties 
3 
Gliricidia 
sepium 
Nitrogen fixation, erosion 
control, wildlife habitat 
Living mulch, livestock fodder, 
soil fertility 
4 
Anthocephalus 
macrophyllus 
Carbon sequestration, 
watershed protection 
Fast timber production, pulp 
quality wood 
5 
Swietenia 
mahagoni 
High carbon storage, 
biodiversity habitat 
Premium timber, long-term 
investment, pest resistance 
6 Arenga pinnata 
Deep soil stabilization, water 
regulation 
Multiple products, drought 
resistance, erosion control 
7 
Artocarpus 
heterophyllus 
Pollinator support, carbon 
storage, food security 
Large fruit production, 
intercropping compatibility 
8 Carica papaya 
Early ground cover, nutrient 
cycling 
Quick returns, continuous 
production, nutritional value 
9 
Musa 
acuminata 
Soil protection, microclimate 
regulation 
Immediate income, continuous 
harvest, wind protection 
10 
Myristica 
fragrans 
Understory habitat, carbon 
storage 
High-value spices, shade 
tolerance, long productivity 
11 
Coffea arabica
 
  
Carbon sequestration, 
understory biodiversity, soil 
cover 
Premium specialty coffee, 
shade-dependent quality, 
international market access 
12 
Durio 
zibethinus
  
Carbon sequestration (high), 
biodiversity habitat, wildlife 
food 
Premium traditional fruit, high 
market value, cultural 
significance, export potential 
13 
Magnolia 
champaca
  
Pollinator support, carbon 
storage 
High-value timber, aromatic 
wood, cultural significance 
24
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
14 
Persea 
americana
  
Biodiversity support, wildlife 
habitat, carbon sequestration 
Premium fruit with international 
and domestic markets, 
year-round income potential 
15 
Palaquium 
obovatum 
High carbon storage, 
biodiversity support 
Premium timber, boundary 
planting, high market value 
16 
Tectona 
grandis 
High carbon storage, medicine 
and for fuel and food.  
Premium timber, high market 
value 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: A sample plantation design for large landowner and smallholders 
 
 
25
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Carbon Modelling approach 
Using the selected species and their compositions in the plantation design for the two activities 
we developed carbon yield projections. The carbon model integrates species-specific data from 
published allometric equations, mean annual increments (MAI), plantation density, and wood 
densities, projecting biomass growth and carbon sequestration over a 40-year crediting period. 
This methodology builds on IPCC guidelines, Verra criteria, and relevant CDM tools  (applicable 
for SRN), ensuring accurate calculations for both agroforestry and reforestation activities.  
We applied these calculations to 6,000 hectares, split into multiple planting phases over fiv e 
years, in line with the project’s land-use and implementation framework. The following points 
summarise the core parameters of our modelling process: 
- Project longevity and crediting period: Total project duration is 40 years, along with a 
crediting period for carbon accounting. We modelled species growth and carbon 
accumulation primarily over these first 40 years, during which we expect the majority of 
biomass gains.  
- Allometric equations: We prioritised species-specific and ecoregion-based equations, 
following Verra criteria, and relied on carefully validated global models as needed. Each 
sampled woody plant’s aboveground biomass was computed from diameter/height 
measurements and wood density factors. 
- Species-specific wood density: We used regional or well-established global datasets to 
convert measured growth parameters into biomass estimates. This step ensured robust 
carbon calculations for diverse species under local soil and climatic conditions. 
- Mean Annual Increment (MAI): We gathered MAI data (e.g., DBH, height growth) from 
published peer-reviewed literature and local inventories, then refin ed it by referencing 
similar ecological conditions. These growth metrics supported accurate projections of 
carbon accumulation over multiple decades. 
- Plantation density: We applied recommended planting densities (trees per hectare) for 
both agroforestry and reforestation sites. Each species recipe included a mix of 
timber/non-timber, fruit, or nitrogen-fix ing species, arranged to balance immediate farm 
yields with longer-term carbon sequestration. 
- NDC, buffer & adjustments: We assigned a 40% buffer to account for non-permanence, 
leakage, and alignment with national commitments (NDC). Specifically, 20% was 
allocated for NDC alignment, 12% for non-permanence risk mitigation, and 5% for 
leakage considerations. 
Community, Stakeholder & Organizational Involvement
 
The long‑term viability of the project hinges on meaningful, inclusive engagement with the full 
spectrum of landscape stakeholders. Because each actor contributes distinct incentives, assets 
and knowledge, the project adopts a structured yet adaptive participation framework that 
facilitates collaboration, balances benefit sharing and supports science‑based landscape 
restoration. Central to this framework is a community‑first orientation that actively positions 
26
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
local communities and bottom-up context-based design at the core of all planning and 
implementation processes. It therefore involves: 
- Project Proponent and Lead Coordinator — Thryve.Earth Group: Thryve.Earth designs 
and finances the project and drives day‑to‑day implementation through a 
central‑coordination framework. It appoints and supervises several on‑ground 
implementers and specialised service firms for nursery logistics, soil analytics and fir e 
management and provides them with standard operating procedures, budget lines and 
performance targets. Thryve.Earth’s GIS and remote‑sensing unit delivers weekly task 
maps to each field team, while its field‑coordination office in Manado conducts joint 
progress reviews, resolves operational bottlenecks and reallocates resources across 
sites as conditions change. By uniting multiple implementers under one coordinated plan, 
Thryve.Earth keeps planting schedules on track, enforces safety and quality standards, 
and maintains a single data pipeline for carbon‑credit verification. Its carbon‑market desk 
continues to structure offtake deals and distribute revenue, ensuring that locally 
generated field data translate into verifiable credits and predictable income for 
participating farmers.  
- Field Implementer : The implementation partner operates as Thryve.Earth’s field partner, 
managing nurseries, satellite seedling stations and the full extension network that 
services farmer groups. It delivers FPIC consultations, GPS parcel mapping, technical 
training and routine monitoring in accordance with Thryve.Earth’s protocols. The 
implementation partner also oversees biochar kilns, compost hubs and village 
fire‑brigade units, reporting weekly metrics (seedling survival, labour hours, pest 
incidents) into the shared data platform. 
- Local Communities and Private Landowners: Smallholder households and communal 
landholders allocate plots, carry out planting and maintenance, and harvest agroforestry 
and non‑timber products. They document their work through a mobile app or paper log, 
unlocking labour payments and a proportional share of carbon revenue once verific ation 
milestones are met. 
- Community‑Based Organisations (CBOs): GAPOKTAN farmer federations, 
Karang Taruna youth groups and PKK women’s units mobilise labour, deliver peer‑to‑peer 
training, mediate conflict and ensure transparent allocation of inputs supplied by 
Thryve.Earth and its field partners. 
- Research Institutions: Institut Teknologi Minaesa (ITM) and academic partners 
implement soil‑carbon sampling, biodiversity surveys and household socio‑economic 
assessments, feeding independent data into Thryve.Earth’s adaptive‑management cycle. 
- Government Agencies: National ministries and provincial‑to‑village administrations 
validate land tenure, issue permits, align the project with Indonesia’s ENDC pathway and 
register verified plots on the SRN‑PPI platform. 
- Traditional and Customary Authorities: Adat councils and church leaders confirm 
customary boundaries, preside over dispute‑resolution processes and ensure that 
project practices respect cultural norms, thereby cementing local legitimacy. 
Jurisdictional REDD+ Status
 
27
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
The project is not located within any province‑ or district‑level jurisdictional REDD+ programme 
recognised by Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment and Forestry. Consequently, the activity is 
categorised as a stand‑alone ARR project under the VCS. The project ensures its carbon 
accounting is therefore not nested within a wider sub‑national or national REDD+ scheme by the 
following assessment and site‑selection criteria outlined below.  
- Methodological alignment:  The project is designed in strict accordance with the 
VM0047 ARR methodology. All planting polygons have been analysed with Sentinel‑2 
and Landsat classification models developed by the Thryve remote‑sensing team and 
cross‑checked against national, global and local land‑cover datasets (2013‑2024). The 
assessment confirms a continuous “non‑forest” status—dominated by alang‑alang 
(Imperata cylindrica), kans grass (Saccharum spontaneum) and recurrent fire scars—for 
the past ten years, fully satisfying VM0047 baseline and additionality tests by 
demonstrating that carbon sequestration would not occur without the proposed 
intervention. 
- APL confirmation: All project polygons fall within the national “Area for Other Uses” (APL) 
zone, a designation reserved for non‑forest functions. APL zoning differentiates these 
parcels from permanent‑forest estates and affirms that restoration activities will not 
overlap with areas earmarked for avoided deforestation.  
- Consistency with national reference levels: Because Indonesia reports REDD+ 
performance against a Forest Reference Emission Level (FREL) that applies only to 
deforestation and degradation, ARR removals are reported separately through the 
SRN‑PPI. Project boundaries, carbon‑pool selections and leakage‑prevention measures 
have been developed considering the SRN requirements and will be uploaded to the 
SRN‑PPI portal to avoid double counting between jurisdictional and project‑level 
registries. 
- Nested‑readiness safeguards: Although North Sulawesi is not yet pursuing an 
ART‑TREES or VCS Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+ (JNR) pathway, the project mapping 
system records all plantings, enabling future reconciliation should a provincial 
programme emerge.  
1.13 Project Location 
Regional overview 
The project will be implemented across multiple locations in North Sulawesi, primarily along the 
eastern coastline, encompassing sites such as Temboan, Bangka Island, Mangkit, Mahembang, 
Belang, Nuangan, Tulap, and Kayuwatu, and continuing into Gorontalo Province. Centred in the 
Minahasa region, which spans roughly 
0° 27' 0" 
to 
1° 27' 0"
 North latitude and 
124° 6' 0"
 to 
125° 6' 0"
East longitude, the initiative aims to cover approximately 6,000 hectares of varied 
coastal and upland landscapes. North Sulawesi, situated on the northeastern peninsula of 
Sulawesi, provides an ecologically diverse setting well-suited to large-scale restoration and 
agroforestry efforts. 
28
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
The project area is accessible through Sam Ratulangi International Airport in Manado, which 
provides multiple daily domestic flights from Jakarta, Surabaya, Makassar, and Bali—Indonesia’s 
key business and tourism hubs. Internationally, there have been direct or periodic flights from 
Singapore and select Southeast Asian airports, subject to airline schedules and seasonal 
demand. In addition to air access, the region benefits from a network of provincial and local 
roads linking coastal towns and inland villages, facilitating the movement of resources and 
personnel to the project sites. 
Located in North Sulawesi’s northeastern peninsula, the area features diverse terrain that ranges 
from low-lying coastal plains to volcanic highlands, with fertile soils supporting a wide variety of 
crops. This mix of landscapes and soils is conducive to large-scale reforestation and 
agroforestry interventions. Culturally, many communities in the region maintain strong traditions 
of cooperative farming and have a rich heritage in forest-based livelihoods, presenting valuable 
opportunities for community-driven conservation initiatives. 
The project also benefits from proximity to institutions such as Sam Ratulangi University and 
Institut Teknologi Minaesa, both recognised for their expertise in sustainable agriculture, rural 
development, and ecological research. Through collaborative research, training, and technical 
assistance, these partners will help reinforce the effectiveness and long-term sustainability of 
agroforestry and restoration efforts in North Sulawesi. 
 
 
Figure 7: Broader project area of the North Sulawesi province 
 
Project sites 
Carefully identifying eligible and suitable sites, alongside building strong partnerships with local 
collaborators, is essential for the project’s success. We select sites and farm plots based on a 
range of criteria (Table 5), encompassing land size, slope limitations, soil fertility, and community 
29
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
engagement readiness. These requirements help ensure that reforestation and agroforestry 
interventions deliver both ecological and socio-economic benefits. Below, we outline the specific 
factors guiding our site selection. 
- Remote sensing and spatial analysis: Across the broader area spanning the eastern 
coast of North Sulawesi through to Gorontalo, we analyzed satellite imagery that 
included multispectral  and SAR data for land-use and land-cover assessments, together 
with radar-based Above-Ground Biomass (AGB) mapping using SAR and PALSAR. 
Through this process, we identified parcels classified as (i) “non-forest” plantable 
(excluding waterbodies, roads, and built-up areas) for at least 10 years, (ii) where biomass 
measures at only 10 percent or less of typical intact forest levels (>100t CO2e/ha), and 
(iii) with contiguous blocks of five hectares or more. Targeting severely depleted parcels 
in this manner ensures that restoration will truly create additional carbon stocks. Also, we 
adopted the five-hectare threshold to group multiple eligible land parcels and owners in a 
spatially aggregated manner, thereby enhancing planting, training, monitoring, and 
habitat connectivity.  
- Baseline validation: Thryve and the implementation partner have held extensive 
discussions with local communities to explain the advantages of ARR-including fire 
resilience, diversified income sources, biodiversity recovery, and carbon revenue 
sharing-while also verifying that site selection aligns with cultural and socio-economic 
needs. These consultations fostered local enthusiasm and ownership, shaping the 
planting strategies and operational plans to balance ecological restoration with tangible 
economic outcomes. In November–December 2024, on-site measurements and 
interviews confirmed the feasibility of ARR, validating both the baseline assumptions and 
the design approach. 
- Land and slope characteristics: From the eligible areas, the priority is to identify 
farmland of at least one hectare in size. This minimum threshold supports the efficiency 
of planting, training, and monitoring efforts. Equally important is the terrain- slopes 
beyond roughly 40 percent (approximately 22 degrees) can be too steep for standard 
operations. On such inclines, carrying seedlings, constructing terraces, and preparing the 
soil quickly become more labour-intensive and costly, while also raising concerns about 
soil erosion and worker safety. By limiting site selection to gentler slopes, the project 
seeks to ensure higher planting success rates, safer working conditions, and more 
sustainable outcomes. 
- APL areas: All selected sites lie within “Area for Other Uses” (APL), indicating they are 
officially reserved for non-forestry purposes, even though some patches of residual 
forest may remain. Because there is no mandatory obligation to reforest these lands, 
project interventions here satisfy the additionality criterion. APL parcels often 
experience severe degradation, presenting signific ant opportunities for ecological 
restoration and agroforestry. Their typical proximity to nearby villages promotes strong 
local engagement, allowing communities to benefit from employment, product 
diversification, and improved ecological services. This arrangement also minimises 
regulatory hurdles, enabling the involvement of private landholders, community groups, 
and the implementation partner. Finally, the availability of large contiguous tracts within 
30
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
APL facilitates meaningful carbon gains, reinforcing the project’s long-term viability and 
scale. 
- Geographical accessibility and community readiness: To function effectively, any site 
must be reasonably easy to reach for those delivering seedlings, inspecting plantations, 
or running training sessions. Where possible, the project encourages the inclusion of 
washrooms, storage, or simple shelters. Equally crucial is the presence of enthusiastic 
landowners and farmers, particularly those open to innovative practices. By prioritising 
accessible plots with supportive, skilled participants, the project can maximise local 
ownership and ensure that successful models are demonstrated and shared within the 
community.  
Table 5: Site selection criteria and requirements for selecting sites, farm plots, collaborators, and 
operational frameworks
 
Category Requirement 
Farm area ● Plot size: 0.5 ha or more  
● Infrastructure for non-cultivable land (e.g., sapling storing space) 
● Proximity to an adequate water source 
● Historical land use pattern - been non-forest condition for 10 years or 
more  
● Flat terrain with minimal slope,  avoiding slopes >40% 
● Absence of existing vegetation (< 10% Biomass/area Threshold) 
● Soil fertility representative of  North Sulawesi’s volcanic or sedimentary 
soils 
Geographical 
factors 
● Good accessibility for materials and visitors 
● Suitable travel times for stakeholders 
● Existing facilities such as shelters, washrooms, or required 
infrastructure 
Collaborator traits ● Willingness to participate 
● Physically accessible to stakeholders 
● Passion for regenerative farming/technology 
● Proven record of good farming practices 
Innovation ● At least one “pioneer” farmer and one “representative” farmer for each 
planting design to model best practices and encourage peer learning 
31
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Category Requirement 
Labour resources ● Availability of local labor 
● Existing staff for farm management 
● Access to skilled staff for hire in the locality 
Regulatory & 
tenure 
● APL Classification: Land must fall under Area for Other Uses, signifying 
fewer legal barriers to reforestation 
● Ownership Documents: Clarity of rights (Implementation partner 
holdings, private or communal land) 
● Absence of Disputes: Ideally free from ongoing land conflicts or 
overlapping claims 
Carbon & 
additionality 
● Demonstrable Non-Forest Status: Confirmed by satellite imagery 
showing no forest cover ≥10 years 
● Significant Degradation: Identifiable low-biomass conditions (<10% 
forest biomass) meeting carbon registry baselines 
● Potential for Increased Carbon Stocks: Evident scope for enhanced 
sequestration via agroforestry, reforestation, and sustainable land 
management 
1.14 Conditions Prior to Project Initiation 
The landscapes targeted by this project in North Sulawesi and Gorontalo have undergone 
extensive ecological and socio-economic degradation. Years of slash-and-burn agriculture, 
unsustainable monoculture, and limited land management capacity have resulted in severe 
topsoil loss, poor soil fertility, and low vegetation diversity. Smallholder farmers dominate the 
area, yet they often lack access to capital, extension services, and markets, which limits their 
ability to invest in long-term land restoration or income diversification. Coordination across 
institutions, sectors, and levels of government remains limited, weakening the overall 
effectiveness of landscape governance. These conditions form the foundation for a targeted 
intervention that addresses both environmental and socio-economic vulnerabilities.  
A. Ecological Baseline 
Climate 
32
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
North Sulawesi experiences a tropical rainforest climate characterised by consistently warm 
temperatures of about 24–28°C and substantial yearly rainfall. Notably, the precipitation pattern 
varies considerably from month to month: June registers the highest rainfall, reaching 
approximately 318 mm, whereas August represents the driest period with about 149 mm of 
rainfall. The wet season spans from December to March, while the drier months extend from 
April to November. In recent years, prolonged dry spells followed by intense monsoonal rains 
have become more frequent, heightening fire risks and erosion in degraded areas
2
. 
Topography 
The province’s topography ranges from coastal lowlands and rolling hills to upland volcanic 
regions with historically fertile soils. Notable hydrological systems include fast-flowing rivers 
such as the Milango and Marsa, essential for natural ecosystems and local agricultural practices. 
However, persistent monoculture and unsustainable cultivation have diminished soil fertility and 
weakened slope stability, exacerbating flood hazards in lower-lying areas. 
Historic conditions 
Historically, North Sulawesi's ecosystems—from tropical rainforests to coral reefs and seagrass 
meadows—perform vital services, including carbon sequestration, water purification, and 
coastal protection and support endemic species. These species rely on large, uninterrupted 
forest areas for foraging, nesting, and other vital activities. However, unsustainable farming, 
illegal logging, poaching, and the expansion of commercial crops have fragmented habitats and 
reduced endemic species’ ranges. As deforestation has progressed due to these activities, 
habitat fragmentation has reduced the spatial continuity these species require, resulting in lower 
habitat quality and increased vulnerability. 
As a result, the fire-prone Imperata grasslands stand out as the most conspicuous drivers of 
environmental degradation in North Sulawesi. The region's low-nutrient soils and seasonal 
droughts facilitate frequent fires that devastate juvenile saplings, reinforcing Imperata's 
dominance
3
. Over recent decades, numerous upland zones have experienced recurrent burning, 
which hampers forest regeneration and fragments wildlife habitats into smaller, isolated 
pockets. 
3
 Yassir, I. (2014). Diversity of Plant Communities in Secondary Succession of Imperata Grasslands in Samboja Lestari, East 
Kalimantan, Indonesia. Indonesian Journal of Forestry Research, 1(2), pp.139–149. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.20886/ijfr.2014.1.2.139-149. 
2
 Aldrian, E. and Dwi Susanto, R. (2003). Identification of three dominant rainfall regions within Indonesia and their relationship to 
sea surface temperature. International Journal of Climatology, 23(12), pp.1435–1452. doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/joc.950. 
33
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 
 Figure 8: Landcover map of North Sulawesi in 2015 and 2025 
Vegetation 
The botanical diversity encompasses 154 species from 53 families, including several taxa of 
global conservation significance. Four endemic Begonia species and potential new species of 
Alpinia and Piper underscore the area's role as an active center of plant speciation
4
. The 
vegetation structure shows distinct zonation patterns, with fire-prone species Imperata 
cylindrica and Saccharum spontaneum dominating degraded areas. The measured 
Shannon-Wiener diversity index of 0.01 indicates early successional stages, substantially below 
the >2.5 threshold characteristic of healthy tropical forests. This low diversity index signals the 
urgent need for continued restoration efforts. 
Despite these constraints, economically valuable and ecologically important species persist, 
including
 Arenga pinnata (sugar palm),  Paraserianthes falcataria, Azadirachta indica, Gliricidia 
sepium, Anthocephalus macrophyllus, Swietenia mahagoni, Artocarpus heterophyllus, Carica 
papaya, Musa acuminata, Myristica fragrans, Coffea arabica, Durio zibethinus, Magnolia 
champaca, Persea americana, Palaquium obovatum, Tectona grandis, Manihot esculenta, and 
Arachis hypogaea. 
Promoting such species through reforestation remains a core objective of 
4
 Helmanto, H., Siregar, M., Rahmawati, S.U., Usman, N. and Sahrudin, U. (2021). Exploration of plant diversity at the forest 
patches in North Sulawesi and Their Conservation Strategy. IOP Conference Series Earth and Environmental Science, 948(1), 
pp.012048–012048. doi:
https://doi.org/10.1088/1755-1315/948/1/012048
.  
34
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Masarang’s initiatives, which have planted over one million trees, demonstrating a tangible path 
toward forest ecosystem recovery. 
Biodiversity Threats 
North Sulawesi lies within the Tropical & Subtropical Moist Broadleaf Forest biome, hosting 
exceptional biodiversity due to its long geographic isolation and complex geological history. This 
has led to high levels of endemism, including unique species of mammals, birds, reptiles, and 
plants. The region supports 3,046 plant species, 75 mammals, 247 birds, and 11 amphibians, 
many of which rely on intact forest ecosystems with specialized habitats such as limestone 
outcrops, thermal vents, and dense canopy cover. 
However, this biodiversity is increasingly threatened by anthropogenic pressures. Logging, 
agricultural expansion, and hunting have caused habitat fragmentation and degradation, 
shrinking viable habitats for endemic species. Even though some intact forest patches remain, 
they are increasingly isolated, limiting the movement and genetic exchange of wildlife. 
The project area supports several threatened species listed by the IUCN. Endangered mammals 
include the Lowland Anoa (Bubalus depressicornis) and Mountain Anoa (Bubalus quarlesi), both 
endemic to Sulawesi. Critically endangered species include the Sulawesi Crested Black Macaque 
(Macaca nigra), locally known as Yaki, and the Maleo (Macrocephalon maleo), a unique bird 
species endemic to Sulawesi’s lowland forests. Habitat fragmentation, hunting, and land-use 
change continue to threaten these species. 
B. Socio-Economic Baseline 
Demographic 
North Sulawesi has an estimated population of 2.70 million in 2024
5
, expected to increase 
modestly in the coming years. With around 67% of people in the productive age group 
(15–64)[5], the province benefits from a demographic advantage. However, rural areas show 
aging trends among smallholder farmers, who are key decision-makers in land use and 
community leadership. Population densities are highest in urban centers such as Manado and 
Bitung, but many residents still reside in rural villages that form the demographic base for the 
project area. These patterns influence both labor availability and the adoption of agroforestry 
practices. The province shows high literacy rates, enabling farmers to adopt new agroforestry 
practices. However, limited youth engagement in agriculture highlights the need for education 
and skills training to ensure generational continuity in sustainable land use practices. 
Livelihoods 
5
 Jumlah Penduduk Menurut Provinsi di Indonesia - Tabel Statistik - Badan Pusat Statistik Provinsi Sulawesi Utara  
35
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
The provincial economy of North Sulawesi relies heavily on agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, 
which together contribute over 20% to the Gross Regional Domestic Product (GRDP)
6
. Crop 
farming, coconut production, and small-scale fishing remain central to rural livelihoods. Despite 
this, most households engage in subsistence or semi-commercial agriculture, often limited by 
declining yields, price volatility, and environmental degradation. Key commodities such as 
coconut, cloves, nutmeg, cassava, and maize face fluctuating market demand, while rising input 
costs and limited access to credit further constrain profitability. 
The project addresses these livelihood vulnerabilities by promoting agroforestry-based 
diversification, offering training, and introducing additional income streams through carbon 
finance. By lowering the barriers to transitioning away from low-yield monoculture systems, the 
initiative creates a pathway for improved productivity, enhanced economic resilience, and more 
sustainable land use for smallholder communities. 
Gender Roles 
The gender roles in North Sulawesi follow a traditional pattern where women manage 
households and nearby agricultural land, while men dominate the public, economic, and, often, 
land-ownership spheres
7
. In the forestry sector, men more commonly take on land clearing, 
heavier field tasks, and formal dealings related to land administration and market transactions, 
while women play substantial roles in seedling care, planting, weeding, harvesting, post-harvest 
processing (including non-timber forest products), and day-to-day household fin ancial 
management that influences farm investment choices.
8
 Despite these contributions, women’s 
formal land ownership remains limited. Nationally, the National Land Agency (Badan Pertanahan 
Nasional/BPN) has reported that only 24.2% of registered land is under female ownership
9
. Even 
at the community level, women’s participation in village governance and forest-related 
institutions is often constrained by social norms and representation patterns. In Indonesia’s 
social forestry context, women are frequently underrepresented in formal management 
structures( average of ~19.5% membership reported for Village Forest management bodies), 
indicating a gap between women’s practical roles in land/forest systems and their representation 
in decision-making structures
10
. To address this, the project will embed gender-inclusive 
participation rules (e.g., women’s representation targets in committees and consultations) and 
ensure women are actively included in project management and local committees (e.g., fire 
response teams and nursery management teams), so they can participate meaningfully and 
receive equitable project benefits. 
10
 
Indonesian social forestry often excludes women from decisions, risking greater inequality
 
9
 
Land Ownership and Women empowerment-
 WRI Indonesia 
8
 
Agroforestry and Forestry in Sulawesi series: Gender, livelihoods and land in South and Southeast 
Sulawesi
 
7
 
Towards equity in Sulawesi: land rights and decision-making key to women’s participation
- World 
Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF) 
6
 Distribusi Persentase Produk Domestik Regional Bruto Atas Dasar Harga Berlaku Menurut Lapangan Usaha** di Provinsi 
Sulawesi Utara, 2023 - Statistical Data - BPS-Statistics Indonesia Sulawesi Utara Province 
36
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Market Access 
Smallholder farmers in North Sulawesi struggle to enter higher-value markets due to limited 
capital, poor infrastructure, and unreliable buyer networks. Most rely on low-yield or subsistence 
systems and remain poorly integrated into value chains. High transport costs, limited financial 
services, and weak extension support further constrain their market participation and adoption 
of sustainable practices. The project responds by promoting diversifie d agroforestry, improving 
market access for key products, and supporting farmers through training, nurseries, and 
carbon-credit incentives to reduce transition risks. 
Tenure/Institutional Gaps 
Many smallholders in North Sulawesi lack formal land titles—only 38.71% hold certific ates from 
the National Land Agency (BPN), while the rest rely on informal documentation recognized at the 
village level
11
. This limits their ability to access institutional support and prevents them from 
benefiting from carbon market mechanisms. Although government programs like PRONA and 
PTSL offer land certification, participation remains low due to bureaucratic hurdles and limited 
outreach. Public extension services also suffer from underfunding, leaving institutional support 
fragmented and ineffective. To address these gaps, the project collaborates with local 
authorities to streamline land tenure formalization processes and strengthens inclusive 
governance through the involvement of village institutions. These efforts help secure landholder 
rights and lay the groundwork for long-term engagement in sustainable land-use systems and 
carbon credit generation. 
C. Drivers of Degradation & Resulting Challenges 
Fire 
Recurring fires in Imperata grasslands remain a key driver of degradation in North Sulawesi, 
fueled by land clearing, drought, and low soil fertility. These fires reduce tree regeneration, 
degrade ecosystems, and isolate wildlife habitats. The project responds with fire prevention 
training, reforestation efforts, and sustainable land-use strategies, including community forestry 
and improved forest management to reduce fire risk and restore resilience. 
Mining 
Mining, particularly for nickel and gold—has expanded in North Sulawesi in response to global 
demand, with the province contributing around 2–3% of Indonesia’s gold output
12
. Many 
concessions overlap with forests or farmland, resulting in large-scale land clearing, soil 
12
 
https://indodax.com/academy/en/biggest-gold-mine-in-indonesia/
 
11
 
Hutapea, R., Tulalo, M. A., Elizabeth, R., & Kindangen, J. G. (2022). Acceleration of smallholder 
plantation development through the development of farmers' economic institutions in North Sulawesi. In 
E3S Web of Conferences (Vol. 361, p. 02023). EDP Sciences. 
 
37
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
excavation, and water pollution from tailings. Although some remediation efforts exist, 
enforcement is inconsistent, and ecological degradation remains widespread. 
Monoculture 
Monoculture expansion and slash and burn agriculture have reduced forest habitats into smaller, 
isolated fragments[8], contributing to both biodiversity loss and biomass decline. Simplifie d land 
use systems such as coconut and coffee plantations have replaced complex forest ecosystems, 
causing declines in birds, mammals, and pollinators. Repeated burning and short crop cycles 
further degrade soil carbon and hinder regeneration. While agroforestry offers restoration 
potential, adoption remains low due to limited incentives and technical support. 
Weak Enforcement 
Weak enforcement of environmental laws in North Sulawesi has allowed illegal logging, 
poaching, and crop burning to persist, particularly in fragmented forest zones. These activities 
threaten endangered and endemic species and undermine ecosystem integrity. The absence of 
adequate monitoring and limited livelihood alternatives further exacerbate unsustainable 
exploitation, reinforcing biodiversity loss and land degradation. 
Need for Intervention 
The convergence of ecological degradation and socio-economic vulnerability in North Sulawesi 
highlights the urgent need for targeted intervention. Forest loss from monoculture, mining, fire, 
and weak enforcement has fragmented habitats and diminished biodiversity, while rural 
communities remain locked in low return land use systems with limited access to capital, 
markets, and tenure security. Without strategic support, these pressures will continue to erode 
both ecosystem health and local livelihoods. The project responds to these challenges by 
introducing community-based agroforestry and land restoration practices that integrate 
ecological recovery with improved income opportunities, addressing core drivers of degradation 
while empowering smallholders to adopt climate resilient and sustainable land use. 
1.15 Compliance with Laws, Statutes and Other Regulatory Frameworks 
The Forest Landscape Restoration in North Sulawesi Province project is implemented in 
alignment with the Republic of Indonesia's applicable laws, statutes, and regulatory frameworks. 
The project has identified relevant legal instruments at the national level to ensure compliance in 
areas such as spatial planning, environmental protection, forestry management, and carbon 
governance. As part of project preparation, a thorough review of existing regulations was 
conducted to confirm that all activities are consistent with the current legal framework. The key 
regulations relevant to this project include: 
Laws, Regulations, and Decrees of the Republic of Indonesia: 
38
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
National Laws and Regulations 
1. Law No. 32/2009 on Environmental Protection and Management - Establishes the 
framework for environmental protection, requiring environmental impact assessments 
for activities that may affect the environment. 
2. Law No. 26/2007 on Spatial Planning - Governs land use planning and zoning, ensuring 
project activities are consistent with designated spatial plans. 
3. Law No. 16/2016 ratifies Indonesia's commitment to the Paris Agreement under the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) - Provides the 
legal framework for Indonesia to implement its commitments under the Paris 
Agreement, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate the effects of 
climate change.  
4. Government Regulation No. 46/2017 on Environmental Economic Instruments - 
Provides guidance on environmental economic instruments, including payments for 
ecosystem services and carbon trading. 
5. Government Regulation No. 22 of 2021 concerning Environmental Protection and 
Management - Establishes the legal framework for environmental protection and 
management in Indonesia. 
6. Government Regulation No. 23 of 2021 concerning Forestry Management - 
Establishes forestry planning, changes in forest area designation and changes in forest 
area functions, use of forest areas, forest arrangements and preparation of forest 
management plans and forest utilization, social forestry management, forest protection, 
supervision; and administrative sanctions. 
7. Presidential Regulation No. 98/2021 on Carbon Economic Value - Establishes the 
framework for carbon pricing in Indonesia, including carbon trading and carbon tax 
mechanisms. 
8. Presidential Regulation No. 77/2018 on Environmental Fund Management - 
Establishes the Environmental Fund Management Agency that can be used to channel 
climate finance. 
9. Presidential Regulation No. 98 of 2021 concerning Carbon Pricing - Establishes a 
framework for valuing carbon emissions, enabling various mechanisms like carbon 
trading, result-based payments, and carbon levies to reduce emissions and foster a 
sustainable green economy according to ARMA Law. 
10. Ministry of Environment and Forestry Regulation No. 
P32/Menlhk/Setjen/Kum.1/3/2016 concerning Forest and Land Fire Control – 
Establishes a comprehensive framework for the prevention, suppression, and recovery 
from forest and land fires, including roles and responsibilities of stakeholders, early 
warning systems, fire suppression procedures, post-fire rehabilitation, community 
involvement, and administrative sanctions. 
39
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
11. Ministry of Environment and Forestry Regulation No. 8/2021 concerning Forest 
Governance and the Preparation of Forest Management and Utilization Plans in 
Protection and Production Forests – Establishes the legal and operational framework 
for forest governance, covering planning, business licensing, utilization, product legality, 
state revenue, and compliance mechanisms in protection and production forests in 
Indonesia. 
12. Ministry of Environment and Forestry Regulation No. 21/2022 concerning Guidance 
for the implementation of Carbon Economic Value (NEK) – Provides comprehensive 
guidance on the implementation of Carbon Economic Value (NEK) in Indonesia. It is part 
of Indonesia’s national strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and achieve 
its NDC (Nationally Determined Contributions) under the Paris Agreement. 
13. Ministry of Environment and Forestry No.7/2023 concerning Carbon Trading 
Procedures in the Forestry Sector – Establishes a framework for emission trading and 
GHG emission offset mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support 
climate change mitigation efforts. 
14. Ministry of Environment and Forestry No.12/2024 concerning Implementation of 
Nationally Determined Contributions in Addressing Climate Change – Establishes the 
framework and mechanisms for implementing Indonesia’s Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs) in addressing climate change. 
The project proponent is committed to fully complying with all relevant laws and regulations and 
will regularly update its compliance status as regulatory frameworks evolve.
 
1.16 Double Counting and Participation under Other GHG Programs 
1.16.1 No Double Issuance 
Is the project receiving or seeking credit for reductions and removals from a project 
activity under another GHG program? 
  ☐   Yes    ☒   No 
If yes, provide required evidence of no double issuance as outlined by the VCS Standard. 
1.16.2 Registration in Other GHG Programs 
Has the project registered under any other GHG programs? 
  ☐   Yes    ☒   No 
If yes, provide the registration number and the date of project inactivity under the other 
GHG program.  
40
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Is the project active under the other program? 
  ☐   Yes    ☒   No 
Project proponents, or their authorized representative, must attest that the project is no 
longer active in the other GHG program in the Registration Representation.
 
1.16.3 Projects Rejected by Other GHG Programs 
Has the project been rejected by any other GHG programs? 
 
  ☐   Yes    ☒   No 
If yes, provide the program name(s), reason(s) and date for the rejection, justification of 
eligibility under the VCS Program, and any other relevant information.
 
1.17 Double Claiming, Other Forms of Credit, and Scope 3 Emissions 
1.17.1 No Double Claiming with Emissions Trading Programs or Binding Emission Limits 
Are project reductions and removals or project activities also included in an emissions 
trading program or binding emission limit? See the VCS Program Definitions for 
definitions of emissions trading program and binding emission limit. 
☐  Yes   ☒  No 
If yes, provide all required evidence of no double claiming as outlined by the VCS 
Standard.
 
1.17.2 No Double Claiming with Other Forms of Environmental Credit 
Has the project activity sought, received, or is planning to receive credit from another 
GHG-related environmental credit system? See the VCS Program Definitions for 
definition of GHG-related environmental credit system. 
 
☐  Yes   ☒  No 
If yes, provide all required evidence of no double claiming as outlined by the VCS 
Standard.
 
1.17.3 Supply Chain (Scope 3) Emissions 
41
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Do the project activities specified in Section 1.12 affect the emissions footprint of any 
product(s) (goods or services) that are part of a supply chain? 
 
☐  Yes   ☒  No 
If yes: 
Is the project proponent(s) or authorized representative a buyer or seller of the 
product(s) (goods or services) that are part of a supply chain?  
☐  Yes   ☒  No 
If yes:  
Has the project proponent(s) or authorized representative posted a public statement on 
their website saying, “Carbon credits may be issued through Verified Carbon Standard 
project [project ID] for the greenhouse gas emission reductions or removals associated 
with [project proponent or authorized representative organization name(s)] [name of 
product(s) whose emissions footprint is changed by the project activities].” 
☐  Yes   ☒  No 
If yes to all: 
Provide evidence of the public statement. Evidence must be provided in this section or in 
an appendix.  
 
1.18 Sustainable Development Contributions 
 
Table 6. The project contribution to SDGs 
SDG SDG Target Project contribution to SDG 
SDG 1: No 
Poverty
By 2030, build resilience of the 
poor and those in vulnerable 
situations and reduce their 
exposure to climate-related events 
and economic, social, and 
environmental shocks. 
 
Creation of sustainable income streams 
through agroforestry systems, NTFP 
harvesting, and employment 
opportunities in nursery operations, 
planting, and maintenance. 
42
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
SDG SDG Target Project contribution to SDG 
SDG 2: Zero 
Hunger
By 2030, ensure sustainable food 
production and implement resilient 
agricultural practices to improve 
productivity, adapt to climate 
change, and enhance soil quality. 
 
Multi-cropping systems combine crops 
like cardamom, cassava, and chilies with 
long-term tree species to ensure food and 
income security. 
SDG 5: Gender 
Equality
Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal 
opportunities at all decision-making 
levels. 
 
Empowering women through training 
programs on sustainable land 
management, agroforestry practices, and 
market access. Women are included in 
decision-making roles within Farmer 
Producer Organizations (FPOs) and 
leadership positions in project 
committees. 
SDG 8: Decent 
Work and 
Economic 
Growth
 
Achieve higher economic 
productivity through diversification, 
technological upgrades, and 
innovation. 
 
Job creation in nurseries, reforestation 
efforts, and agroforestry operations. 
Training programs for farmers and 
workers to develop climate-resilient 
agricultural skills, enabling access to new 
markets for high-value products like 
cloves and cardamom. 
SDG 10: 
Reduced 
Inequalities  
 
Reduce inequality within and 
among countries. 
Targeted support for marginalized groups 
such as smallholders and older farmers 
through equitable carbon-revenue 
sharing. Inclusive participation 
mechanisms and income monitoring aim 
to reduce disparities and ensure fair 
distribution of project benefits among 
vulnerable participants. 
43
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
SDG SDG Target Project contribution to SDG 
SDG 13: Climate 
Action 
 
Strengthen resilience and adaptive 
capacity to climate-related hazards 
and natural disasters. 
 
Afforestation and reforestation activities 
on degraded lands create fire-resistant 
landscapes through native species 
planting and agroforestry. Carbon 
sequestration through agroforestry 
models is tracked via VCS methodologies. 
SDG 15: Life on 
Land 
 
Protect, restore and promote 
sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, and 
halt and reverse land degradation 
and halt biodiversity loss  
Protection of critical habitats for endemic 
and endangered species like the Sulawesi 
crested macaque, Maleo bird, and 
leatherback turtle. Restoration activities 
include planting native species and 
increasing habitat connectivity for wildlife 
corridors. 
SDG 17: 
Partnership for 
the Goals 
 
Strengthen the means of 
implementation and revitalize the 
global partnership for sustainable 
development. 
Collaboration with local governments, 
NGOs, and academic institutions to 
support extension services and 
knowledge-sharing. The project fosters 
sustained multi-stakeholder engagement 
through formal partnerships, joint 
workshops, and replication of best 
practices by local actors. 
1.19 Additional Information Relevant to the Project  
1.19.1 Leakage Management 
 
The project will be implemented on privately owned fallow or degraded lands belonging to 
smallholder and marginal farmers. These lands have been degraded by invasive grasses and/or 
unsustainable monoculture practices. The project aims to regenerate these areas through 
agroforestry models. These models use native or naturalized species, supported by 
nitrogen-fixing species and biochar application to improve soil health and enhance carbon 
sequestration. Importantly, the agroforestry activities do not displace current subsistence or 
livestock activities and are designed to increase productivity within existing land-use 
boundaries. 
Farmers retain full rights to any commodities produced, and project design includes built-in 
leakage mitigation through sustainable intensification—particularly by enhancing productivity 
per hectare and promoting on-farm integration of tree crops. 
44
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
To meet the requirements of the VMD0054 Leakage Module, potential sources of leakage have 
been assessed. The following table outlines relevant leakage drivers, their applicability, and 
supporting evidence. 
Table 7. Potential leakage drivers
 
Leakage Driver Relevance 
(High/Low/None) 
Justification Supporting 
Evidence 
Subsistence 
Crops 
None Project activities occur 
exclusively on degraded 
grasslands, not on 
household agricultural 
plots 
Land Mapping; 
Project Boundary; 
GIS Analysis 
Fuelwood 
Collection 
None Household energy needs 
are fully met with LPG; no 
reliance on fuelwood 
observed in baseline 
conditions. 
Socio-economic 
Survey, 2025: All 
respondents 
reported 
exclusive LPG 
use. 
Grazing None The majority of 
households keep poultry; 
few cattle are stall-fed 
and not free-grazing. No 
pasture displacement. 
Socio-economic 
Survey, 2025. 
Timber 
Extraction 
None There is no history of 
timber harvesting within 
the project planting areas 
which are already 
degraded, under-utilised 
or abandoned  
grasslands.  
Socio-economic 
Survey, 2025. 
New Roads 
Construction 
None The project does not 
involve any road 
construction; all activities 
utilize existing access 
infrastructure. 
Legal documents 
from local 
authorities. 
 
1.19.2 Commercially Sensitive Information  
No commercially sensitive information has been excluded from the public version of the project 
description. 
45
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
1.19.3 Further Information 
The project is considering CCB validation and verification but will conduct baseline studies and 
develop management plans to address community, environmental, and biodiversity concerns and 
targets. If feasible and beneficial, the project will undergo CCB validation and verification.     
2 SAFEGUARDS AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
2.1 Stakeholder Engagement and Consultation 
2.1.1 Stakeholder Identification 
Stakeholder 
Identification 
The project proponent, Thryve.Earth Group, and its team supported the 
success of the project by dedicating all aspects of the stakeholder 
identification and consultation process. Thryve.Earth Group 
collaborated with our Implementation Partner and Teknologi Minaesa 
Institute .  
1. Pre survey 
A pre-survey was conducted by submitting permission letters to the 
sample locations, followed by site visits, informal discussions, and 
enumerator training at Teknologi Minaesa Institute.  
 
2. Identification Meetings 
Nine meetings were held with local communities, community 
leaders, and research institutions to collect primary data and share 
information about deforestation, climate change, and the ways in 
which the Project aims to reduce GHG emissions while benefiting 
the local population. 
 
Stakeholders identified through the process comprise: 
● Local communities and Landowners conducting formal and 
informal economic activities, including: 
o Agriculture 
o Fishing 
o Forestry 
o Manufacturing Industry 
o Construction 
o Transportation and Warehousing 
o Wholesale and Retail Trade 
 
● Local Associations including: 
46
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
o Farmers Group (Gabungan Kelompok Tani) 
o Woman Group (Pembinaan Kesejahteraan Keluarga) 
o Youth Organization (Karang Taruna) 
o Community-based Organization (Farmers Producers 
Organization) 
 
● Government and Community leaders 
o Ministry of Forestry 
o Ministry of Environment 
o Ministry of Agriculture 
o Governor of North Sulawesi 
o District Head 
 
● Non-Government Organizations: 
o Masarang Foundation 
o Teknologi Minaesa Institute 
Legal or customary 
tenure/access rights 
The project executed a binding legal agreement(s) (such as a contract) 
securing the legal right to control and operate project activities over the 
entire project area with all entities that have verified ownership claims or 
verified land, resource access, or use rights (such as customary rights 
holders).  
Chieftain and church authorities work closely to align customary 
practices with Christian values, influencing land governance and 
conservation efforts. This unique blend of traditional, religious, and legal 
frameworks strengthens community participation, environmental ethics, 
and sustainable land-use practices. Any initiative related to land tenure, 
conservation, or development in North Sulawesi must incorporate both 
chieftain and church involvement to ensure local legitimacy, regulatory 
compliance, and long-term success. 
Stakeholder diversity 
and changes over time  
North Sulawesi is home to the Minahasa ethnic group. The Minahasa 
tribe lives in the Minahasa Raya area. Minahasa Raya is currently divided 
into Minahasa Regency, South Minahasa Regency, Southeast Minahasa 
Regency, North Minahasa Regency, Bitung City, Manado City and 
Tomohon City. Their religion is mostly Christian or Protestant. Over time, 
Christianity has become deeply integrated into Minahasa society, with 
the church playing a key role in social cohesion, education, and conflict 
mediation. Today, adat leaders and church authorities work closely to 
align customary practices with Christian values, influencing land 
governance and conservation efforts. 
47
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
In the four districts of Minahasa, North Minahasa, Southeast Minahasa, 
and South Minahasa, gender roles within households and communities 
are shaped by both traditional and evolving social norms. Overall, both 
men and women contribute to the functioning of households and 
communities, with their roles interwoven across economic, social, and 
cultural domains.  
North Sulawesi Province is characterized by high literacy rates, which 
play a crucial role in supporting agroforestry practices and other 
agricultural activities. Agriculture, particularly coconut farming, and 
fishing are central to the livelihoods of its people, while small-scale trade 
and entrepreneurship add vitality to the local economy. These 
socio-economic activities are influenced by the region’s geography, 
which includes coastal areas, fertile highlands, and densely forested 
regions.  
The Project does not expect any changes in social diversity and 
composition due to the implementation of the Project. 
Expected changes in 
well-being  
Project activities could enhance income opportunities and overall 
community well-being by incorporating respondents’ aspirations and 
expectations,  also helped identify priority areas where support is 
needed, including access to seeds and seedlings, technical training and 
capacity-building workshops, financial assistance or subsidies, access to 
agricultural tools and equipment, as well as guidance on suitable plant 
species and market linkages. 
Location of stakeholders  
The primary Project Activity Implementation (PAI) zones are located 
within Minahasa Regency, North Sulawesi Province, Indonesia.  
The implementation in the phase 1 (1000ha) primarily spans three rural 
villages: 
● Makalisung Village (Lembean Timur Subdistrict): 
Located at approximately 1°17′3.12′′N, 125°2′16.55′′E, this site 
lies in the northeastern portion of the project area, within 
low-to-mid elevation landscapes featuring degraded grassland 
and shrubland. 
● Mahembang Village (Kakas Subdistrict): 
Positioned at 1°4′51.56′′N 124°58′1.92′′E, Mahembang is 
situated near the eastern shore of Lake Tondano, with land use 
dominated by a combination of home gardens, cloves, and 
abandoned plots suitable for agroforestry intervention. 
● Kayuwatu Village (Kakas Subdistrict): 
Also located at approximately 1°6′57.85′′N, 124°57′31.50′′E, 
Kayuwatu lies within an upland transition zone with slopes 
48
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
suitable for contour-based tree planting and assisted natural 
regeneration. 
These three villages form the geographic core of the project area, which 
lies between Lake Tondano to the west and the Lembean–Kakas uplands 
to the east. The terrain varies from flat agricultural margins to gently 
sloping hills that have experienced long-term degradation due to fire, 
fallow cycles, and unsustainable monoculture. 
The nearest commercial and administrative centers include: 
● Tondano (±25–30 km southwest), the regency capital, 
● Manado (±50–60 km northwest), the provincial capital and 
economic hub, 
● Airmadidi (±40–50 km north), which connects the area to the 
national road network. 
All villages are accessible via provincial and district roads, with basic 
public infrastructure such as schools, churches, and village offices 
present in each location.  
Location of resources 
Vegetation: The botanical diversity encompasses 154 species from 53 
families, including several taxa of global conservation significance. 
Several trees have fruits and other products that are useful for 
consumption and commercialization.  Masarang will increase access to 
these resources through reforestation which has planted over one million 
trees. 
Forest: North Sulawesi, situated within the Tropical & Subtropical Moist 
Broadleaf Forest biome, is home to an extensive 2.52 million hectares of 
predominantly lowland rain forests (1.84 million ha) and montane rain 
forests (0.68 million ha). Communities rely on forest resources for their 
daily needs, as well as identifying climate-related risks such as pest 
infestations and extreme weather events. 
Wildlife: Wild animals are scarce due to poaching and habitat loss.  
Agricultural and fisheries: North Sulawesi’s economy balances 
longstanding rural traditions with modern commercial centres 
concentrated in Manado, Bitung, and Tomohon. These towns form 
essential links in the supply chain, facilitating the movement of 
agricultural and fishery products from outlying areas into broader 
domestic and international markets. Fewer than 10% of households rely 
solely on farming, a deeper qualitative perspective reveals substantial 
dependence on agriculture across rural communities. Additionally, 
around 13% of individuals join fishery-related groups, which promote 
49
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
income diversification by supporting cooperative fishing efforts and 
sharing resources such as boats or market linkages. Farmer groups and 
fishery cooperatives ensure that farmers and fishers have resources to 
advance sustainable practices. 
Land: Land ownership is customary. Only 38.71% of surveyed landowners 
possessed formal land ownership certificates recognized by the National 
Land Agency, while the majority relied on informal documents issued by 
village or district authorities. 
Infrastructure: Infrastructure is still inadequate. Many upland farmers 
lack reliable road access, resulting in weak connections to markets. In 
addition, minimal extension services hamper awareness of ecological 
best practices. 
2.1.2 Stakeholder Consultation and Ongoing Communication 
Date of stakeholder 
consultation 
Site visit and Discussion with Village Head and Local Community: 25-26 
November 2024 
Participatory surveys: 3-5 December 2024. 
Discussion with the Ministry of Forestry: 18 December 2024. 
Stakeholder consultation: 
● Makalisung Village Head MoU Signing: 23 May 2025 
● Meeting with Makalisung Villagers: 3 June 2025 
● Kayuwatu Village Head MoU Signing: 17 June 2025 
● 1st meeting in Kayuwatu: 2 July 2025 
● 2nd meeting in Kayuwatu: 17 July 2025 
● Mahembang Village Head MoU Signing: 10 July 2025 
● 1st meeting in Mahembang with Villagers: 18 July 2025 
The detail for stakeholder consultation is listed on Appendix 2 
Stakeholder 
engagement process  
On 25 November 2024, the implementation partner (Masarang 
Foundation for this area) , Thryve.Earth Group, and the local community 
held a consultation through discussion and site visit methods to assess 
the feasibility of the proposed project area. The activity included a 
meeting with the village head, who plays a key role in land tenure 
administration and conflict resolution. During this meeting, the Project 
Proponent sought permission to proceed with further assessments and 
outreach activities in accordance with local governance protocols. This 
initial interaction provided a deeper understanding of land tenure 
dynamics, community structures, and appropriate approaches for 
socialization and outreach. The discussion also clarified the community’s 
livelihood conditions, land-use history, existing challenges, and the types 
of support expected from the project.  Informal consultations were also 
50
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
conducted with local community members. These interactions offered 
valuable perspectives on their livelihoods, the history of land use and 
ownership, existing challenges, and their level of interest in the proposed 
initiative. 
On 26 November 2024, consultations focused on capturing community 
perspectives. The discussions explored the community’s willingness and 
capacity to participate in the project, as well as feedback on the 
proposed implementation approach. Community members shared 
expectations regarding types of support, including alternative livelihood 
options. In addition, local economic conditions, income sources, and 
areas where agroforestry could enhance or diversify livelihoods were 
explored. Potential constraints such as labour availability, limited 
resources, and risks to current livelihoods were also identified. 
Between 3 until 5 December 2024, an in-depth participatory community 
survey was carried out to gather detailed data on household 
composition, livelihoods, land tenure status, and specific support needs. 
The survey involved 20 facilitators and enumerators from Teknologi 
Minaesa Institute and 35 local community respondents. The survey 
revealed that approximately 38.71% of landowners held formal land 
certificates from the National Land Agency (BPN), while the remainder 
relied on informal documents issued by village authorities. About 85.71% 
of respondents expressed willingness to engage in the project, with 
most non-participation linked to age-related limitations. Key priority 
areas for support included seed provision, capacity-building, financial 
assistance, and access to markets. The survey also highlighted 
community dependence on forest resources and exposure to 
climate-related risks such as pest outbreaks and extreme weather 
events, emphasizing the relevance of agroforestry as a climate-resilient 
livelihood strategy. 
On 18 December 2024, a consultation with government representatives 
addressed issues related to land ownership documentation, which 
remains largely informal in the area. Discussions clarified national 
regulatory requirements and carbon project compliance standards, while 
also exploring possible government contributions to reforestation 
efforts and land certification. These engagements served to align 
project interventions with national frameworks and enhance institutional 
support. 
On 3 June 2025, the implementation partner (Masarang Foundation for 
this area), Thryve.Earth Group, the local community, and the landowner 
held a consultation through a discussion. During this meeting, Thryve, as 
the Project Proponent, explained the purpose and implementation of the 
51
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
project to the local community, stakeholders, and the landowner, while 
also offering a partnership to the landowner. From this consultation, 
Thryve received a positive and enthusiastic response from local 
stakeholders, along with valuable input.  
Consultation outcome 
The discussions provided important insights into land tenure dynamics, 
the historical process through which communities have acquired land 
rights, and the organizational and community structure and groups 
present in the village. The village head provided guidance on the most 
effective approaches for outreach and socialization, to ensure that the 
engagement process was in line with local customs and expectations. In 
addition, the Project Proponent gained a deeper understanding of the 
key issues in the community and the type of support they expected from 
the project. The discussions provided a comprehensive understanding of 
community composition, livelihoods, land tenure, and the type of support 
required for effective project implementation.  
Key findings revealed that only 38.71% of landowners surveyed had 
formal land ownership certificates recognized by the National Land 
Agency, while the majority relied on informal documents issued by village 
or district authorities. Community interest in participating in the project 
was high, with 85.71% of respondents expressing willingness to 
participate, while the remaining individuals, mainly due to age-related 
issues, chose not to participate. In addition, the discussions provided 
clarity on the methodology and standards required to comply with 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Ongoing communication 
The Project maintains a Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) which has an 
ongoing communication system with local communities surrounding the 
Project Area, including local coordinators appointed from the Project 
Proponent’s staff. The CLOs maintain relations with local officials, 
community groups, and village residents. The CLOs act as the main point 
of contact for any claims, issues, grievances, or other communications. 
In addition, the Project has primarily communicated with community 
members by holding in-person meetings. However, stakeholders also 
share project updates through WhatsApp channels. 
Stakeholder input 
Informal consultations with over 30 landowners during the onboarding 
sessions revealed strong enthusiasm to participate, with 85.71% 
expressing readiness and many identifying their plots for inclusion. 
However, several elderly farmers raised concerns about limited labor 
availability, as younger family members often work outside the village. In 
response, participants requested support in planting, harvesting, tools, 
seedlings, training, and market access. There was widespread support for 
52
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
a cooperative-based land management model, particularly among those 
unable to manage their land independently. Landowners also expressed 
preference for marketable and low-maintenance crops such as nutmeg 
and banana. In addition, the issue of unclear land boundaries emerged as 
a key challenge, prompting the recommendation for GPS-assisted field 
verification with logistical support from local government officials. These 
insights have directly informed the project’s design to ensure that it is 
locally relevant, inclusive, and responsive to community needs. 
 
2.1.3 Free Prior and Informed Consent 
Obtaining consent  
 
 
Project stakeholders were informed of project activities through 
village-level meetings, one-on-one engagements, and related 
consultation formats, with participation from diverse sections of the 
community across the project area. Following these engagements, 
consent was obtained from participating farmers by the implementation 
partners. During the meetings, the Project Proponent provided detailed 
explanations of the project activities, requirements, and the roles and 
responsibilities of each stakeholder, and allowed sufficient time for 
stakeholders to review the information and reconvene with their 
decisions regarding enrolment, ensuring transparency throughout. The 
Project Proponent also remained available to address queries raised by 
stakeholders during the decision-making period. The following 
information was shared with stakeholders to obtain landowner consent 
on the ground: 
1. Legal rights in property: The Project Proponent will not claim any 
property rights over the Landowner plot of land used for the 
Project. By signing the Landowner Agreement, the Landowner does 
not transfer any land property rights to Thryve.Earth or Masarang 
Foundation. 
2. Benefits for the Landowners:  Landowners receive tree saplings for 
free and maintenance support for 1st  year, Masarang Foundation 
provides training and technical assistance, Landowners have full 
rights to use or sell products from the planted trees (e.g., wood, 
fruits, flowers, leaves) and keep all profits, Landowners will receive a 
share of the profits from carbon credit sales (after project costs are 
deducted). 
3. Duties of the Landowners: Landowners are responsible for 
maintaining the trees planted on their registered land for a 
minimum of 40 years. Support for 1st year is provided either 
53
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
through paid employment or by labour provision. Land owners are 
expected to apply sustainable agricultural practices as taught in 
training sessions conducted by the Masarang Foundation. 
Landowners must actively protect the plantations and comply with 
all monitoring and verification procedures required by the project. 
Throughout the duration of the agreement, they are also obligated 
to provide necessary information and documentation to support 
the implementation and tracking of project activities. Furthermore, 
landowners are not permitted to sell, lease, or transfer ownership of 
the registered plot during the agreement period without providing 
at least six months' prior notice to Thryve.Earth. This requirement is 
in place to ensure that any new owner remains committed to the 
project’s objectives, particularly in preventing activities such as 
illegal logging or burning that could compromise emission reduction 
goals. In addition, landowners agree not to enroll the same land in 
other carbon credit or environmental offset projects, thereby 
avoiding the issue of double counting carbon credits, which is 
strictly prohibited under carbon market regulations. 
4. Duties of Thryve.Earth: Thryve.Earth acts as both principal financier 
and operational lead for the project. Beyond securing and 
disbursing capital under the ARR Implementation Cooperation 
Agreement, it directs day‑to‑day field execution by issuing annual 
work plans, budgets and standard operating procedures to several 
on‑ground partners including the Masarang Foundation, specialist 
nursery contractors and fire‑management crews and reallocating 
resources when conditions shift. Thryve.Earth develops the 
technical package for landholders, runs the remote‑sensing and GIS 
platform that underpins VM0047 monitoring, and serves as the 
single clearinghouse for project data. It also packages and markets 
the verified carbon units, negotiates offtake agreements, and 
distributes revenue according to the agreed benefit‑sharing 
formula, while maintaining project‑wide risk management, 
compliance checks and quality control. 
5. Duration and Termination. This Agreement begins on the date it is 
signed and remains in effect for 40 years. While the clauses related 
to termination and transfer are not intended to restrict the 
Landowner's rights, they are designed to protect the Project’s 
objectives—particularly the reduction of CO2e emissions. If a 
Landowner plans to sell, lease, or transfer their land, they are 
required to notify Thryve.Earth at least six months in advance. This 
notice period allows time to ensure the new landowner agrees to 
uphold the Project’s goals by signing the same Agreement. This 
54
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
safeguard is crucial to prevent harmful practices such as illegal 
logging or crop burning that could reverse the environmental 
benefits achieved, ensuring the long-term success of the Project 
and its contributions to climate change mitigation. 
6. Exclusive ownership of the carbon credits from the Project. 
Thryve.Earth and the Masarang Foundation will not claim ownership 
or control over the Landowner’s land. By signing the agreement, the 
Landowner retains full land rights and only agrees to transfer the 
rights to the carbon credits generated through the Project. This 
means Thryve.Earth will manage and sell the carbon credits 
resulting from the Project's activities, while the Landowner 
continues to own and control their land. 
7. Notices and Correspondence. The Masarang Foundation is 
responsible for managing the Project’s daily operations and 
handling all communications on behalf of Thryve.Earth. Therefore, 
any correspondence related to the Project should be directed to 
Masarang via the official email: arr-project-support@thryve.earth. 
While Thryve.Earth is the main project partner, Masarang will serve 
as the primary point of contact for Landowners regarding 
documents, questions, or project updates. 
8. Applicable Laws and Dispute Settlement. Any legal matters related 
to this Agreement will follow Indian law. If there is a disagreement, 
both Parties will first try to work it out together. If they can’t, the 
dispute will be taken to a professional arbitrator in North Sulawesi, 
Indonesia.  
Following the above outlined process,  
Outcome of FPIC 
The project proponent and landowners have mutually agreed to 
collaborate in planting and protecting the plantations within the project 
area throughout the project’s crediting period. The landowners have 
voluntarily signed consent agreements to participate in the project. 
According to these agreements, the project proponent holds the legal 
authority to implement the project and claim legal rights over the 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emission removals (carbon credits) generated. 
The project also provides input on relevant policy frameworks to clarify 
the requirements for land tenure formalization and to ensure compliance 
with applicable regulations. Since the project is implemented on barren 
and abandoned agricultural lands with the full consent of the landowners, 
there is no relocation of community members, and no form of forced 
55
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
displacement. The project has been co-designed with input from the 
community and other stakeholders. 
2.1.4 Grievance Redress Procedure
 
Development process 
GRM has been built alongside core project planning through a 
sequenced, standards‑driven process with feedback from local 
stakeholders and implementation partners. Work began with village 
surveys and participatory appraisals that mapped existing dispute 
channels, trusted intermediaries and typical land‑ or resource 
conflicts, confirming the need for a system usable by residents with 
limited literacy, mobility constraints and uneven internet access. 
Requirements drawn from Verra VM0047, the Indonesian SRN 
registry and other safeguard standards then defined baseline 
requirements—public accessibility, impartial review, fixed response 
times and full documentation. Internal stakeholder workshops with 
Thryve.Earth staff, Masarang field coordinators and community 
engagement officers translated those requirements into a five‑stage 
workflow: receipt and registry entry of complaints; acknowledgement 
within three to five working days and preliminary review; tiered 
resolution through local mediation or an oversight panel; written 
communication of outcomes with corrective actions; and periodic 
analysis of grievance data for adaptive management. As the project 
proceeds to advanced implementation stages, selected liaison 
officers tested the draft forms and procedures in simulated cases, 
which led to clearer language and the addition of a toll‑free SMS 
option for off‑grid households. The final GRM will be incorporated into 
the socio‑economic monitoring framework, endorsed by project 
leadership, uploaded to the SRN‑PPI registry and publicised on village 
noticeboards to ensure transparency and accessibility from project 
launch. 
Grievance redress 
procedure 
Any individual or group that believes the project has caused harm, or 
wishes to raise a concern, can do so through several 
channels—directly to a Community Liaison Officer, by written note at 
the village office, or via phone, SMS, or WhatsApp. Once received, the 
Liaison Officer records the submission in a central log, noting the 
date, contact details (if provided), type of issue, a brief description, 
and any supporting evidence. Within three to five working days the 
complainant is formally acknowledged—verbally or in writing—and 
informed of next steps and an initial timeline. 
56
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
The first attempt at resolution occurs at the local level. An 
implementation‑organisation (e.g., Masarang) field coordinator works 
with the Liaison Officer—often together with community‑based 
organisations—to mediate and settle the matter within 14 days. 
Where customary procedures are relevant, the team may consult 
adat practices or village elders to ensure that the solution aligns with 
local norms. If the issue is resolved, the settlement terms are 
documented, the complainant signs to confirm satisfaction, and 
corrective actions are carried out immediately. 
Should the grievance remain unresolved or prove complex, it moves 
to an oversight panel composed of the implementation organisation’s 
regional lead, a Thryve.Earth representative, village elders or leaders, 
and—when necessary—a neutral academic or government official. 
The panel may order site visits, GIS checks, or additional interviews 
before issuing a written decision within a further 14–21 days. If the 
complainant still disagrees, or if the matter falls outside the project’s 
scope (such as criminal activity), the mechanism directs parties 
toward formal legal or administrative remedies; project staff will 
facilitate but not adjudicate these external processes. 
Each decision—whether reached locally or by the panel—is logged in 
the Grievance Register, along with follow‑up notes confirming that 
agreed actions were completed. Thryve.Earth and the 
implementation organisation review the log at least quarterly to 
identify patterns and update training, benefit‑sharing rules, or land 
documentation where needed. An anonymised summary of the year’s 
grievances, outcomes, and lessons learned is included in the project’s 
annual report to communities, government regulators, and 
carbon‑credit buyers, ensuring transparency and continuous 
improvement. 
 
57
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
Figure 9: Project grievance mechanism process flowchart 
 
 
2.1.5 Public Comments 
The project has not entered public comment.  
58
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Comments received Actions taken 
NA NA  
... .... 
2.2 Risks to Stakeholders and the Environment 
2.2.1 Management Experience 
An effective landscape-scale ARR project demands both deep local conservation 
know-how and sophisticated carbon-market execution. Masarang Foundation brings the 
former—decades of hands-on restoration and community work in North Sulawesi—while 
Thryve.Earth delivers the latter, translating field results into high-integrity credits and 
finance. Together they provide the complete skill set needed to move seamlessly from 
nursery planning to credit sale. 
The Masarang Foundation management team possesses extensive expertise and 
in-depth experience in various fields relevant to the implementation of conservation and 
community empowerment projects. The Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Dr. Willie 
Smits, is a globally recognized Ashoka Fellow with over 40 years of experience as a 
forestry engineer, microbiologist, conservationist, animal activist, and social 
entrepreneur. He is an expert in agroforestry practices and forest management and has 
served as a food security advisor to the government and the Ministry of Forestry of 
Indonesia, contributing to the planning of the new capital city and COP climate 
negotiations. The CEO of the Masarang Foundation has over 12 years of experience as a 
nature conservationist and wildlife rescuer, with expertise in biodiversity, law 
enforcement in forestry and environmental crime, as well as community engagement. 
The Chair of the Board has expertise in permaculture and sustainable systems design, 
particularly in regenerative food production using agroforestry methods. The team's GIS 
specialist is experienced in project management, data management, logistics 
coordination, environmental planning, training, and facilitation. In addition, the team 
includes a land acquisition and government relations expert with strong knowledge of 
land regulations, government policies, logistical support, and mobilization, along with 
well-established relationships with local government authorities. With this combination 
of expertise, the Masarang Foundation management team is well-equipped to integrate 
key aspects of project implementation, including environmental conservation, 
community empowerment, and coordination with government and other stakeholders. 
The Thryve.Earth management team brings together diverse expertise essential for the 
successful implementation of climate and sustainability projects. The CEO has extensive 
knowledge in carbon markets, natural climate solutions, agri-food systems, and venture 
building. The CPO is a pioneer in carbon registry standards, having led the largest 
issuance of carbon credits to date for Australian farmers and facilitated a sale to 
Microsoft. The CFO specializes in strategic planning, risk management, M&A, taxation, 
and compliance. The Technical Development Lead for Nature-Based Solutions (NBS) 
59
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
supports the development of carbon forestry and sustainable land management 
projects. The Head of Science brings deep expertise in applied science, policy, and 
systems ecology, covering carbon, biodiversity, climate, land use, and spatial planning. 
The Origination and Business Development Lead has a background in consumer goods, 
health tech, and freight tech, with strategic and operational experience in Southeast Asia 
and India. The NBS Specialist is a multidisciplinary practitioner trained in both 
environmental technologies and ecological sciences. The Marketing and Communication 
Lead has developed strategies that drive growth and brand awareness within global 
finance and tech sectors, while the Marketing Support Specialist is skilled in business 
strategy development, market research, and content creation. 
2.2.2 Risk Assessment 
   
 
Risks identified 
 
Mitigation or preventative 
measure(s) taken 
Natural and human-induced 
risks to stakeholders’ 
wellbeing 
The project landscape is 
inherently exposed to 
environmental hazards that may 
affect participating households. 
The prevalence of fire-prone 
Imperata cylindrica grasslands 
creates a persistent risk of 
wildfire that could threaten 
homes, food crops, and newly 
established plantings. Seasonal 
climate variability—including 
intense monsoonal rainfall and 
prolonged dry spells associated 
with El Niño events—poses risks 
of flooding, erosion, drought 
stress, and temporary water 
scarcity. Increased tree density 
may also elevate pest and 
disease risks, potentially 
affecting both project trees and 
adjacent agricultural systems. 
These environmental risks may 
result in loss of crops, damage 
to assets, reduced short-term 
incomes, or temporary safety 
hazards for community 
A multi-layer “early-response” 
system will be in place at each 
village: (1) 3-5 m fire breaks, plus 
a volunteer brigade equipped 
with backpack sprayers and 
trained annually; (2) subscription 
to drought hotspot and 
extreme-rainfall SMS alerts that 
trigger stand-down of field 
crews and activation of a farmer 
WhatsApp warning loop; (3) 
rain-harvesting pits and contour 
vetiver hedges to buffer both 
drought stress and flash runoff; 
(4) an Integrated Pest 
Management 
protocol—minimum five tree 
species per plot, quarterly scout 
transects, pheromone traps for 
key insects, and bio-fungicide 
seedling dips—so outbreaks are 
detected and contained before 
crossing plots or villages.  
60
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
members involved in project 
activities. 
 
Risks to stakeholder 
participation 
If the landowners don’t 
understand the project or how it 
will affect them, they may be 
hesitant to participate, 
farmers/landowners want to 
change the land use activity on 
the land or even want to sell the 
land. 
Each land parcel is governed by 
a 40-year contract that: (i) 
guarantees the owner’s title, (ii) 
assigns carbon rights to the 
project, and (iii) obliges a 
six-month resale-notice period 
so the project can re-contract 
the new owner. Annual 
“benefit-sharing assemblies” at 
the balai desa publish audited 
cash flows and distribute 
revenue via bank transfer or 
cooperative e-wallet, ensuring 
clarity on who earns what, when. 
A land-title assistance 
programme—run with the 
district BPN office—targets 200 
uncertified farmers in Years 1-3, 
reducing tenure insecurity and 
the temptation to liquidate land 
under distress. 
Working conditions 
Agroforestry revenues are 
back-loaded, so if households 
misjudge cash-flow timing, they 
may clear new land or sell 
enrolled plots mid-project. 
Insecure tenure magnifies the 
risk: only 39 % of smallholders 
hold formal land titles, and land 
sales often occur informally 
after a family emergency. A 
breakdown in trust—e.g., over 
the share of carbon revenues or 
misunderstanding of monitoring 
visits—could see participants 
withdraw en masse, leaving 
gaps in the corridor design. 
A written OSH plan (aligned with 
Permenaker 
PER.04/MEN/1998) mandates 
PPE, task-based safety 
briefings, recorded tool 
inspections, and a first-aid kit in 
each work cluster. Supervisors 
log hours via a mobile timesheet 
app that cross-checks payments 
against the provincial UMK rate; 
quarterly payroll audits are 
shared with village labour 
committees. All workers are 
enrolled in BPJS 
employment-injury cover, and 
incident hotlines feed directly to 
the Community Liaison Officer 
61
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
who must file a Root-Cause 
Analysis within 72 hours of any 
accident. 
Safety of women and girls 
Project meetings and 
mixed-gender field teams can 
inadvertently replicate social 
power imbalances, exposing 
women to exclusion from 
training, sexual harassment 
during remote plot visits, or 
under-recognition of their labour 
contributions. 
Gender-sensitisation is 
compulsory for all staff, 
contractors, and village 
volunteers; completion is 
tracked by HR. Women are 
prioritised for nursery 
employment (traditionally 
viewed as “lighter” work). A 
confidential grievance channel 
(WhatsApp) is overseen by a 
female CLO and guarantees a 
seven-day response window. 
Project progress reports 
disaggregate wage and 
leadership data by sex, enabling 
corrective action if parity slips. 
Safety of minority and 
marginalized groups, 
including children 
North Sulawesi’s 
Christian-Minahasan majority 
generally enjoys social cohesion, 
yet smaller migrant or faith 
groups may feel sidelined, and 
child labour can creep into family 
plots during peak planting 
weeks. 
An Inclusion SOP requires that 
every PAI’s consultation list 
reflect village census 
proportions by ethnicity and age. 
Collaboration with Karang 
Taruna (youth organisation) and 
PKK (women’s welfare group) 
embeds minority voices in 
planning committees. A strict 
no-child-labour clause—echoing 
Indonesian Law No 13/2003—is 
built into all contracts; surprise 
spot-checks during school hours 
are logged, and any breach 
triggers immediate contract 
suspension. 
Pollutants (air, noise, 
discharges to water, 
generation of waste, and 
release of hazardous 
Although the project promotes 
organic practices, ad-hoc use of 
synthetic fertiliser or chemical 
herbicides by individual farmers 
could contaminate streams that 
A zero-synthetic-fertiliser policy 
is enforced via input-purchase 
receipts; only biochar, compost 
and approved bio-pesticides may 
be reimbursed. Each nursery 
62
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
materials and chemical 
pesticides and fertilizers) 
feed downstream aquaculture. 
Nursery operations generate 
plastic poly-bags, and field crews 
produce mixed solid waste. 
stores fuels and oils in 
secondary-containment bins, 
with monthly spill-checks 
logged. Poly-bags are recovered 
at planting and compacted for 
sale to a Manado recycler; field 
camps carry colour-coded bins 
whose contents are weighed and 
reported monthly.  
 
2.3 Respect for Human Rights and Equity 
2.3.1 Labor and Work 
 
Risks identified
13
 
 
Mitigation or preventative 
measure(s) taken 
Discrimination 
Risk of discrimination against 
marginalized groups (e.g. 
women, ethnic minorities) in 
access to project participation 
or benefits. 
The Project Proponent clearly 
establishes a commitment to 
labour and human rights through 
its organizational policies, which: 
● Respect the Universal 
Declaration of Human 
Rights of the United 
Nations and the 
Fundamental Principles of 
the International Labor 
Organization; 
● Promote an inclusive, safe, 
and healthy work 
environment for 
employees, contractors, 
and suppliers through 
transparent, fair, and 
equitable practices that 
respect diversity, foster 
talent, and uphold high 
13
 The identified risks and commensurate mitigation or preventative measure(s) for forced labor, child labor, and human 
trafficking, must be inclusive of staff and contracted workers employed by third parties. 
63
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
social standards and 
working conditions; 
● Guarantee equality and 
equity in rights and 
opportunities without 
discrimination based on 
sex, colour, or religion. 
Additional safeguards and 
operational measures are 
detailed in the attached 
Standard Operating Procedures 
(Annex). 
Sexual harassment 
No risk identified. The Project has determined 
gender inclusion SOP to prevent 
sexual harassment. 
The Project has established 
collaboration with women’s and 
youth organizations to promote 
and apply principles of 
inclusivity. 
Equal pay for equal work 
No risk identified. The Project Proponent has 
developed a gender inclusion 
Standard Operating Procedure 
(SOP) to prevent sexual 
harassment. This includes the 
following types of harassment, 
among others: sexual 
harassment; offensive language 
or jokes; inappropriate 
comments about race, ethnicity, 
gender, or religion; degrading 
comments; intimidating or 
threatening behaviors; or hostile 
actions. 
The Project Proponent has also 
established collaboration with 
Women’s Empowerment 
Principles (WEPs) and the 
United Nations Global Compact 
64
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
to promote and apply principles 
of inclusivity. 
Gender equity in labor and 
work 
Aging workforce in some areas 
and lower female labor 
participation rates, further 
reduce overall productivity. 
The project aims to engage 
women and disadvantaged 
community members actively, 
ensuring equitable 
benefit-sharing and social 
inclusion.  
Empowering women through 
training programs on 
sustainable land management, 
agroforestry practices, and 
market access. Women are 
included in decision-making 
roles within Farmer Producer 
Organizations (FPOs) and 
leadership positions in project 
committees. 
Throughout the life of the 
project annually and biannually 
surveys and questionnaires will 
be conducted to assess gender 
inclusion and equity with 
percentage of women 
participating in project activities 
or holding leadership roles 
indicator. 
Forced labour, child labour, 
and human trafficking 
No risk identified. The Project Proponent has 
prepared and implemented 
human resources forced labour, 
and policy which will prevent the 
hiring process related to human 
trafficking, forced labour, and 
child labour in any aspect of its 
operations, including within its 
supply chain. The policy and 
SOP adhere to Indonesia’s laws 
and regulations. 
 
65
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
2.3.2 Human Rights
 
Risks identified Mitigation or preventative measure(s) taken 
No risk identified. The Project Proponent fully acknowledges and honors customary 
rights and land use claims through: 
Free Prior Informed Consent: The Project ensures that indigenous 
peoples and holders of customary rights are consulted and provide 
their free, prior, informed consent before any activities take place 
on their land or territories. 
Respect for customary land rights (ulayat): The Project Proponent 
will not claim ownership or control over the Landowner’s land. The 
project integrates a proactive approach to land rights formalisation. 
This involves connecting with government agencies at various 
levels and leveraging partnerships to ease the legal documentation 
process. These efforts not only satisfy regulatory requirements but 
also serve as a means to empower the local community, securing 
their rights and encouraging active participation in the project. 
Recognition of Traditional Knowledge: The project acknowledges 
and values the traditional knowledge of indigenous peoples and 
customary rights holders who possess a long-established 
hierarchical system of customary law (adat), which governs land 
tenure, dispute resolution, environmental management, and 
conservation efforts. This is intended to ensure local legitimacy, 
regulatory compliance, and long-term project success. 
Participation and representation: The project has collaborated 
with Community-based organizations (CBOs) and representative of 
local community to ensure strong community engagement and 
local participation. They play an important role in facilitating 
communication, resolving conflicts, and overseeing local activities 
to ensure project success. 
Non-discrimination: The Project guarantees equal and fair 
treatment for indigenous peoples and customary rights holders, 
ensuring that they are free from discrimination in every aspect of 
Project implementation. 
Grievance and redress mechanisms: The project leadership is 
committed to establishing open, accountable channels for resolving 
any disputes that might arise. All stages—whether related to 
complaint receipt, evaluation, or final resolution—are thoroughly 
66
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
documented to build trust among stakeholders and to demonstrate 
the project’s willingness to respond to community feedback. 
Monitoring and Evaluation: All activities carried out by the Project 
Proponent are subject to monitoring and evaluation in accordance 
with the established project monitoring plans and standard 
operating procedures. 
 
2.3.3 Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Heritage
 
Risks identified Mitigation(s) or preventative measure taken 
 Less likely but potential risks that we are mindful 
of may include:  
 
• Impacts on cultural practices and sacred-site 
access. Agroforestry plots could overlap areas 
used for traditional ceremonies or ancestral 
graves; outside technicians may ignore customary 
(adat) protocols. 
• Undue influence on land-tenure decisions. 
Because only ~40 % of smallholders hold formal 
titles, project incentives might pressure families to 
formalise or transfer land in ways that clash with 
Minahasan adat norms. 
• Unequal representation in decision-making. 
Village meetings are often dominated by male 
household heads and church elders, risking the 
exclusion of women, youth and smaller migrant 
groups (e.g., Gorontalo or Sangirese farmers). 
  
To ensure inclusive participation, the project will 
implement diverse consultation methods 
including focus groups, household visits, and 
separate meetings for different demographic 
groups, moving beyond traditional village 
meetings. Leadership training will be provided for 
underrepresented groups, and trained facilitators 
will ensure balanced participation in meetings. 
Participation rates and speaking time will be 
systematically tracked by demographic group, 
with confidential feedback channels for reporting 
exclusion. The project will maintain transparent 
documentation, provide materials in local 
languages, and conduct quarterly risk reviews with 
community feedback integration. 
2.3.4 Property Rights
 
 Risks identified 
 
Mitigation or preventative 
measure(s) taken 
Right to territory and 
resources 
Potential risks in North Sulawesi 
even though less likely to be 
materialised, include: 
● Overlapping tenure claims 
between clan heirs or 
Legal analysis will be conducted 
to determine the appropriate 
framework for carbon 
ownership under Indonesian law, 
with particular attention to 
67
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
between village (tanah 
kebun) records and district 
RTRW zoning. 
● Speculative purchases 
after carbon-project 
announcements, tempting 
smallholders to sell before 
contracts are finalised. 
● Ambiguity over carbon 
ownership if a parcel sits 
inside a state-forest class 
yet is farmed under 
customary rights. 
recent regulations on customary 
forest recognition and carbon 
trading. The project will develop 
standardized benefit-sharing 
agreements that acknowledge 
state forest status while 
ensuring customary rights 
holders receive appropriate 
compensation for their land 
management contributions. 
Regular consultation with the 
Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry will ensure compliance 
with evolving regulations, while 
documentation of all 
agreements will provide legal 
clarity for all parties involved in 
carbon transactions. The project 
will maintain a transparent 
registry of all tenure 
arrangements, ownership 
agreements, and 
benefit-sharing arrangements, 
with quarterly reviews to identify 
emerging issues. Emergency 
response protocols will enable 
rapid intervention when 
speculative activity or tenure 
disputes threaten project 
integrity or community welfare, 
with clear escalation procedures 
to appropriate authorities and 
mediation services. 
 
Respect for property rights 
Inadequate recognition of 
customary tenure systems 
where project activities proceed 
without proper 
acknowledgment of traditional 
Minahasan land ownership 
patterns, potentially 
undermining traditional-based 
To ensure proper recognition of 
traditional Minahasan land 
ownership patterns and resolve 
boundary conflicts, the project 
will conduct comprehensive 
customary tenure mapping with 
traditional leaders (tua-tua) and 
village elders, documenting 
68
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
inheritance and usage rights 
that may not be formally 
documented but are recognized 
by local communities. 
Involuntary land use restrictions 
imposed through project 
requirements that limit 
traditional farming practices, 
seasonal burning, or crop 
selection without adequate 
consultation or compensation, 
effectively diminishing property 
rights even when formal 
ownership is maintained. 
adat-based inheritance patterns, 
usage rights, and clan territories 
before project activities begin. 
To protect secondary rights 
holders including women's 
customary rights to specific 
trees or crops, seasonal access 
rights, and traditional 
easements, the project will 
conduct comprehensive 
stakeholder mapping and hold 
specific consultation sessions 
with women's groups, seasonal 
users, and traditional rights 
holders to document their 
interests and ensure inclusion in 
project design and 
benefit-sharing arrangements. 
Secondary Rights Recognition 
Protocols will formally 
acknowledge and protect these 
arrangements within project 
agreements, while participatory 
land use planning will involve all 
community members in 
designing project activities that 
complement rather than restrict 
existing practices. Free, prior, 
and informed consent protocols 
will be required for any land use 
changes, with alternative 
livelihood support provided 
where project requirements 
necessitate changes to 
traditional practices.  
2.3.5 Benefit Sharing 
Process used to design the 
benefit sharing plan  
Consultations by discussions regarding benefit sharing were held 
over the period from November to December 2024. The 
consultations/meetings were facilitated by a facilitator from the 
ITM who spoke in the local language. The meetings were attended 
by local community representatives who are active in the Project 
69
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Area and village head. In these meetings, representatives from the 
Project Proponent explained the proposed Project Activities and 
the benefits that would be received by the community. 
Summary of the benefit 
sharing plan 
The benefit-sharing agreement in this project is designed to ensure 
that the benefits derived from the project are distributed fairly, 
transparently, and participatively to the affected stakeholders, 
particularly local communities, farmers, and landowners who are 
directly involved in the implementation of the project. The 
benefit-sharing mechanism includes the distribution of agroforestry 
products as well as revenues from the sale of Verified Carbon 
Credits (VCCs), based on each party’s contribution to the project. 
The key components of this agreement include: 
1. Rights to Agroforestry Products 
Landowners retain full rights to the products obtained from the 
agroforestry system, including fruits, flowers, leaves, 
non-timber forest products (NTFPs), and other products from 
the trees planted as part of this project. 
2. Revenue Sharing from VCCs 
Farmers and/or landowners participating in the project are 
entitled to a portion of the net revenue from the sale of VCCs. 
The percentage of the share is determined through mutual 
agreement between the project proponent (e.g., Thryve.Earth) 
and project participants. Generally, this ranges between 
30%-50% of the proceeds after deducting operational, 
implementation, certification, and carbon credit sales costs. 
3. Financial Transparency 
The project’s financial reports will be audited by an 
internationally reputable independent auditor, and the results 
will be shared with the community as a form of accountability 
and transparency. 
4. Establishment Support and Incentives 
The project will provide maintenance support for 1–2 years as a 
form of bridge assistance to sustain livelihoods prior to the 
realization of benefits from NTFPs and carbon credits, while 
also reducing risks for farmers and offering an additional safety 
net. Support will include incentive funds for planting and 
maintenance activities carried out by farmers during the first 
two years. 
5. Provision of Annual Crop Seeds 
The project will supply seeds of annual crops to help generate 
short-term income and strengthen food security. 
70
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Approval and dissemination 
of benefit sharing plan 
Masarang Foundation, or an authorized party appointed by 
Thryve.Earth, will be responsible for ensuring that the net proceeds 
allocated to farmers and/or landowners are directly and properly 
disbursed. This process will adhere to the terms outlined in the 
agreement and comply with all applicable regulations to maintain 
transparency and accuracy.  
Thryve.Earth would also consider implementing a floor for 
community benefits, which would provide a backstop for 
communities to benefit from guaranteed revenues regardless of the 
carbon price per ton in the market. The mechanism fosters trust 
and engagement by empowering local communities through a fair 
share of the project’s benefits. It emphasizes the need for 
transparent calculations and disbursement processes, avoiding 
indirect costs or fees unrelated to operational expenses. Disputes 
over net proceeds are resolved per the provisions in the agreement 
to maintain harmony and trust among stakeholders. 
 
Table 8. Potential project benefits and how they will be shared amongst landowners 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4 Ecosystem Health 
71
 
Potential revenue 
streams 
Benefits 
considered in 
the project 
Cost 
considered in 
the project 
Benefits flowing 
to landowners 
Carbon revenues 
Yes Yes 
30% - 50% of the 
proceeds 
On-farm 
agroforestry 
revenues 
No Yes 100% revenues 
Potential upfront 
supplementary 
income sources 
(such as bee boxes, 
etc.) 
No Yes 100% revenues 
Maintenance and 
Agroforestry 
Activities 
Yes Yes 100% revenues 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
Risks identified 
 
Mitigation or preventative 
measure(s) taken 
Impacts on biodiversity and 
ecosystems 
In North Sulawesi, unsustainable 
agriculture, monoculture 
practices by smallholding 
farmers, slash and burn, minimal 
share-tree integrations, have led 
to severe soil degradation, 
reduced carbon stocks, and 
biodiversity loss. Biodiversity in 
North Sulawesi is now 
threatened by both overt 
exploitation (e.g., illegal logging, 
poaching) and inadvertent 
consequences of farmland 
expansions. 
By creating greater habitat 
complexity and connectivity, the 
project also supports local 
biodiversity and safeguards 
species that depend on 
continuous or semi-intact forest 
canopies.  
To measure and confirm the 
improvements in biodiversity 
due to reforestation and 
agroforestry, the Sulawesi ARR 
project uses a detailed 
monitoring program. This  
program helps track changes in 
plant life, wildlife, habitat 
connections, and the health of 
the whole ecosystem, making 
sure the restoration efforts 
support both climate goals and 
biodiversity conservation.  
Soil degradation and soil 
erosion 
In North Sulawesi, unsustainable 
agriculture, monoculture 
practices by smallholding 
farmers, slash and burn, minimal 
share-tree integrations, have led 
to severe soil degradation, 
reduced carbon stocks, and 
biodiversity loss.  Exacerbated 
by heavy chemical inputs, the 
soil from these degraded lands 
exhibit low nutrient content. 
By implementing reforestation 
and agroforestry, the project 
seeks to limit further forest loss, 
reduce topsoil erosion, and 
reestablish wildlife corridors. To 
further improve carbon stocks, 
improve soil fertility, and support 
climate-change mitigation 
efforts, the project aims to 
introduce biochar production 
across all suitable plots. 
Water consumption and 
stress 
Soil degradation, exacerbated by 
heavy chemical inputs, has 
resulted in soils from these 
degraded lands exhibiting low 
nutrient content and poor 
water-retention capacity. 
Repeated fires also degrade the 
By mitigating wildfire risks, 
transitioning from single crop 
farming to diversified 
agroforestry 
72
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
hydrological functions essential 
for stable water supplies. 
revitalises soils, enhances water 
retention, and establishes 
healthier 
habitats for wildlife. 
Usage of fertilizers 
 
Risk: Farmers may use banned 
synthetic inputs like urea or 
glyphosate during pest spikes, 
while nursery poly-bags and 
chemical containers could 
pollute waterways. 
To prevent synthetic input use, 
the project will include 
zero-synthetic-input clauses in 
all benefit-sharing contracts and 
conduct random fertilizer audits 
through purchase receipt 
reviews and soil nitrate testing 
to ensure compliance. The 
project will supply organic 
alternatives including compost, 
biofertilizer, and neem-based 
biopesticides at cost to farmers, 
reducing the temptation to use 
prohibited synthetic inputs 
during pest outbreaks. For waste 
management, the project will 
implement a poly-bag collection 
program with monthly waste 
logs reviewed by the Chief 
Operating Officer to prevent 
environmental contamination 
from nursery materials and 
chemical containers. 
2.4.1 Rare, Threatened, and Endangered Species 
Is the project located in or adjacent to habitats for rare, threatened, or endangered 
species? 
  ☒  Yes      ☐   No 
Species and habitat  
The project area consists of degraded mosaics of agricultural 
landscapes interspersed within tropical forests. These areas still 
harbour one of Wallacea’s densest concentrations of endemic 
vertebrates, many of them globally threatened. Targeted restoration 
therefore delivers dual benefits—carbon sequestration and the 
73
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
safeguarding of irreplaceable evolutionary lineages—provided that 
habitat structure and connectivity are restored. 
Field inventories completed in 2024 recorded the following focal taxa:  
- Sulawesi crested black macaque – Macaca nigra (CR) 
- Lowland anoa – Bubalus depressicornis (EN) 
- Mountain anoa – Bubalus quarlesi (EN) 
- Sulawesi babirusa – Babyrousa celebensis (VU) 
- Sulawesi bear cuscus – Ailurops ursinus (VU, national list) 
- Spectral tarsier – Tarsius tarsier (LC; several congeners 
VU/EN) 
- Knobbed hornbill – Rhyticeros cassidix (VU) 
- Maleo – Macrocephalon maleo (CR) 
- Snoring rail – Aramidopsis plateni (VU) 
Surveyed vegetation plots document > 150 vascular-plant species, 
including flagship trees such as Sulawesi ebony (Diospyros celebica) 
and undescribed Begonia spp. Shannon–Wiener diversity values span 
0.01 in Imperata grasslands to > 2.5 in remnant forests, mirroring an 
above-ground biomass gradient of 1–10 (dergraded areas) to 450+ Mg 
ha⁻¹ (intact forests). These data confirm an early-successional state in 
large tracts of the landscape and highlight priority zones where 
canopy closure and structural complexity must be accelerated to 
sustain the species listed above. 
Areas needed for habitat 
connectivity 
Forest‐dependent biodiversity in North Sulawesi now occupies an 
increasingly perforated landscape; most remnant blocks are smaller 
than the minimum dynamic area required for viable populations, and 
are isolated by fire-maintained Imperata grasslands or single-crop 
farms. To halt the loss of endemic fauna and to restore essential 
ecosystem functions, connectivity must be rebuilt through a network 
of structurally complex corridor habitats that span both elevational 
(sea level–900 m) and riparian gradients.  
Ecological requirements for functional connectivity 
Vertical & altitudinal gradients – Wide-ranging frugivores such as the 
Knobbed Hornbill Rhyticeros cassidix and Spectral Tarsier Tarsius 
tarsier shift seasonally between lowland fruiting trees and mid-slope 
figs. Continuous or quasi-continuous canopy corridors ≥30 m in height 
and ≥80 m in width allow these taxa to track food resources and 
maintain seed-dispersal services. 
74
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Riparian strips & swamp mosaics – Semi-aquatic or drought-sensitive 
species (e.g., Snoring Rail Aramidopsis plateni, amphibian guilds) 
require shaded stream banks and periodically inundated forest. 
Vegetated river margins ≥50 m wide reduce edge micro-climate 
stress, filter sediments, and create linear movement routes. 
Lowland stepping-stone patches – Medium-sized mammals such as 
Lowland Anoa Bubalus depressicornis and Sulawesi Babirusa 
Babyrousa celebensis tolerate brief excursions across open land but 
need forest “stepping stones” ≤300 m apart to minimise predation 
risk and thermal stress; patch areas of ≥5 ha with >60 % crown cover 
are considered adequate refugia. 
Soft-edge buffers: Where human settlement abuts forest, graded 
agroforestry belts (multi-strata cocoa, sugar-palm, native shade trees) 
soften abrupt boundaries, lowering human–wildlife conflict for 
crop-raiding macaques (Macaca spp.) and providing foraging habitat 
for insectivorous bats (e.g., Emballonura alecto). 
Canopy micro-linkages – Arboreal specialists such as the Sulawesi 
Bear Cuscus Ailurops ursinus depend on interlocking crowns and liana 
bridges. Target metrics are gap distances <15 m and vine density >20 
stems ha⁻¹ within corridor interiors. 
Connectivity as a Co-benefit form the project 
Although the North Sulawesi ARR initiative is primarily designed for 
long-term carbon sequestration, its technical interventions inherently 
rebuild landscape permeability: 
Planting lists emphasise native, late-successional tree species who 
will supply the vertical structure and fruiting phenology required by 
frugivores, bats, and canopy carnivores. 
Reforestation blocks will connect with existing forest fragments and 
along watercourses; with potential to reduce inter-patch resistance 
within 15 years of establishment. 
On smallholder plots, shade-grown cocoa, coffee, and sugar-palm are 
intercropped with nitrogen-fixing Gliricidia and native hardwoods, 
generating “soft edges” that expand effective habitat area without 
removing productive land from farmers. 
75
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Highly flammable grasslands are replaced with fire-resistant pioneer 
trees and biochar-enriched soils, reducing corridor attrition from 
wildfires—currently the principal driver of patch isolation. 
Land-use contracts lock in crown-cover thresholds (>50%) for the 
50-year project duration, ensuring that corridors mature rather than 
reverting to open fields when carbon revenues begin to flow. 
 
 
Risks identified Mitigation or preventative 
measure(s) taken 
 
Natural Risks for ARR Project 
in North Sulawesi 
The ARR project in North 
Sulawesi is situated in a dynamic 
landscape shaped by both 
ecological richness and 
environmental challenges.  
Fire Risk: Among the most 
significant threats to long-term 
forest permanence is fire. The 
presence of highly flammable 
grasses like Imperata cylindrica 
and Saccharum spontaneum, 
combined with traditional land 
clearing through slash-and-burn 
practices, creates a particularly 
volatile environment. Satellite 
data from MODIS and VIIRS 
reveal more than 400 fire alerts 
each year within 20 kilometers 
of the project sites, with most 
incidents concentrated between 
July and October
14
. 
Drought Risk: Drought presents 
another notable concern. While 
Fire Risk: To address the high 
risk of fire, local communities 
have been playing a central role 
in monitoring and response. 
Real-time alerts from NASA’s 
Fire Information for Resource 
Management System (FIRMS) 
have been helping to support 
early detection of active fires. 
Strategically placed buffer 
zones and live firebreaks around 
grass-dominated edges have 
been helping to contain spread. 
Awareness campaigns during 
the dry season have been 
minimizing slash-and-burn 
activities, and replanting 
flammable grasses like Imperata 
cylindrica with native cover 
crops has been lowering ignition 
potential. 
Drought Risk: Managing 
drought has involved both 
species selection and landscape 
design. Drought-tolerant native 
trees have been prioritized, 
14
 NASA FIRMS (Fire Information for Resource Management System): https://firms.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/; Global Forest 
Watch Fire Alerts; Yassir, I. et al. (2014). “The Ecology of Imperata cylindrica Grasslands in Indonesia.” 
76
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
the region typically receives 
over 2,000 mm of rainfall 
annually, recent years have seen 
longer and more intense dry 
spells, especially during El Nino 
Southern Oscillations (ENSO) 
phases. Climate datasets such 
as CHIRPS and drought indices 
like Standardized Precipitation 
Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) 
show that dry-season rainfall 
deficits have increased by over 
25% in the last decade, 
indicating a moderate but 
growing risk
15
. 
Earthquake and Volcano Risks: 
Sulawesi is located in an active 
tectonic zone, making it 
vulnerable to earthquakes and 
volcanic activity. USGS records 
show over 50 magnitude-5.0 or 
greater earthquakes within 100 
km over the past 20 years, and 
active volcanoes like Soputan 
and Lokon have erupted nine 
times since 2000, placing some 
areas within moderate to high 
hazard zones
1617
. 
Cyclone Risk: Tropical cyclones 
are rare in this part of Indonesia. 
Historical records from IBTrACS 
show no major cyclone landfalls 
in recent decades, suggesting a 
low risk overall, though intense 
while organic mulch and 
micro-catchment pits have been 
helping soil retain moisture 
longer. The timing of planting 
activities has been informed by 
Climate Hazards Group InfraRed 
Precipitation with Station data 
(CHIRPS) forecasts to avoid 
peak dry spells. Mixed-species 
planting and shade strategies 
have been further protecting 
young seedlings during dry 
periods. 
Earthquake and Volcano Risk: 
Given the seismic and volcanic 
activity in the region, nurseries 
and essential infrastructure 
have been located away from 
the identified hazard zones. 
Extra saplings are being kept as 
backup. Project teams have 
been staying in close 
coordination with local disaster 
response authorities (BPBD) to 
ensure readiness in case of 
tremors or volcanic alerts. 
Cyclone Risk: While cyclones 
are rare in North Sulawesi, 
precautionary measures have 
been taken by considering the 
general frequency of 
occurrence, highest 
precipitation and wind speed. 
The tall grasses in the area can 
17
 Global Volcanism Program, Smithsonian Institution: https://volcano.si.edu/; PVMBG Indonesia Volcanic Hazard Maps 
16
 USGS Earthquake Catalog: https://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/search/; InaRISK Seismic Hazard Maps 
15
 CHIRPS v2.0 Climate Hazards Group InfraRed Precipitation with Station data: https://www.chc.ucsb.edu/data/chirps; 
Standardized Precipitation-Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI): https://spei.csic.es/; Aldrian, E. & Susanto, R. D. (2003). “Indonesian 
Rainfall Variability and Its Relation to ENSO.” Int. J. Climatol. 
77
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
rainfall events can still result 
from distant storm systems
18
. 
Pest and Disease Risk: In terms 
of ecological health, pest and 
disease risks are currently low to 
moderate. Though no major 
outbreaks have been observed 
in the past five years, changes in 
climate and shifts in land use 
could increase susceptibility 
over time
19
. 
Sea Level Rise: Sea Level Rise is 
not a major threat at present. 
Most project sites are well above 
sea level, and elevation data 
confirm that the majority of the 
landscape sits more than 10 
meters above mean sea level. 
Still, with IPCC projections 
indicating sea level rise of 
around 0.5 meters by 2100, 
coastal and estuarine zones will 
require periodic monitoring
20
. 
 
 
 
act as barriers to high speed 
winds. 
Pest and Disease Risk: To 
reduce vulnerability to pest and 
disease outbreaks, a diverse mix 
of native species has been used 
across reforestation plots. 
Routine monitoring and 
collaboration with local 
agricultural officers have been 
helping to catch issues early. 
Selecting naturally resistant, 
endemic species and applying 
biological control methods 
where feasible have been 
assisting in keeping plantations’ 
health in check. 
Sea Level Rise: Areas selected 
for planting have generally been 
outside the effects of exposure 
to sea level rise. Elevation data 
from the Copernicus Digital 
Elevation Model (DEM) and sea 
level projections from the 
Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC) have 
confirmed this. Periodic soil 
salinity testing will ensure 
adaptive management as 
coastal conditions evolve. 
 
 
20
 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report (AR6); RIMES Coastal Vulnerability Assessments; Copernicus GLO-30 Digital Elevation Model 
19
 FAO Forest Health and Pest Reports: https://www.fao.org/forestry/pests; Local field surveys (2024); Institut Teknologi Minaesa 
Agroecological Notes (internal) 
18
 IBTrACS: International Best Track Archive for Climate Stewardship: 
https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/products/international-best-track-archive; BMKG: Indonesian Meteorology Agency 
78
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Habitats for rare, 
threatened, and endangered 
species 
Rare, threatened, and 
endangered species are already 
facing habitat loss and 
increased human 
encroachment. Newly 
established forests offer food 
and shelter for wildlife, but this 
can bring animals closer to 
human settlements. 
In the short term, ground 
preparation activities such as 
mechanical grass-strip ripping 
and seedling transport can 
disturb or destroy nests, leading 
to displacement or loss of 
breeding sites. Furthermore, 
diversified planting schemes 
involving fruit trees, cacao, and 
nutmeg may attract species 
such as Sulawesi Crested 
Macaques, babirusa, and tarsiers 
into community croplands. This 
raises the risk of poaching or 
retaliatory killings due to crop 
damage or perceived threats to 
livelihoods. 
The Sulawesi ARR project seeks 
to enhance habitats for endemic 
and threatened species, 
including the Sulawesi Crested 
Macaque and Dwarf Buffalo 
(Anoa), through increased tree 
cover, natural forest 
regeneration, protection of 
ecologically intact areas, and the 
establishment of wildlife 
corridors. These actions are 
critical to maintaining the 
viability of rare, threatened, and 
endangered species populations 
across the landscape. 
To strengthen conservation 
outcomes, the project will work 
closely with local communities 
to identify and map known 
breeding or nesting sites prior to 
any ground preparation. A 
50-meter no-work exclusion 
zone will be enforced around any 
such sites to prevent 
disturbance. In addition, lockable 
gates and clearly marked 
exclusion zones will be 
established in sensitive areas. A 
hunting ban will be included as a 
binding clause in the Landowner 
Memorandum of Understanding 
(MoU), and the project will 
support quarterly joint patrols 
involving local stakeholders and 
enforcement partners to 
monitor compliance and deter 
illegal activities. 
Areas for habitat 
connectivity 
Low risk potential for 
Infrastructure barriers – service 
tracks or firebreaks, around 
plots, may fragment what should 
function as through-corridors.  
Wildlife-permeable 
infrastructure – tracks ≤4 m 
width with vegetated shoulders; 
speed-limit 20 km h⁻¹  
79
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 
The project will enhance 
agricultural biodiversity through 
apiculture and regenerative 
agroforestry using diversified 
species, establish biodiversity 
corridors, from fragmented 
habitats to connected 
ecosystems and wildlife 
habitats, and rehabilitate 
grasslands, from slash-and-burn 
& leave fallow practices, 
recurrent fires to reforested 
and/or agroforestry-managed 
landscapes. Therefore, the 
activities will positively impact 
habitat connectivity and no 
mitigation or prevention 
measure is needed. 
 
 
Figure 10: Images of Tarsius spectrumgurskyae 
Image source: Masarang Foundation, Used with permission 
80
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
Figure 11: Images of Macaca nigra 
Image source: Masarang Foundation, Used with permission 
 
 
   A       B 
  Figure 12: Images of Babyrousa celebensis male (A) and female (B) 
Image source: Masarang Foundation, Used with permission 
 
81
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
2.4.2 Introduction of Species 
  No adverse effects have been identified for all species below. 
Species introduced Classification Justification for use 
Adverse effects and 
mitigation 
 Arenga pinnata  Native Native species that fit 
the local land, with seeds 
that can be harvested by 
the local communities 
None to be noted 
Musa acuminata  Native Native species that fit 
the local land, with seeds 
that can be harvested by 
the local communities 
None to be noted 
Paraserianthes 
falcataria 
Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Anthocephalus 
macrophyllus 
Native Native species that fit 
the local land, with seeds 
that can be harvested by 
the local communities 
None to be noted 
Gliricidia sepium Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Theobroma cacao Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Swietenia 
macrophylla 
Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Carica papaya Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
82
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Species introduced Classification Justification for use 
Adverse effects and 
mitigation 
Artocarpus 
heterophyllus 
Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Myristica fragrans  Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Azadirachta indica Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Coffea arabica Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Durio zibethinus  Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Magnolia champaca Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Persea americana  Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
Palaquium obovatum  Native Native species that fit 
the local land, with seeds 
that can be harvested by 
the local communities 
None to be noted 
83
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Species introduced Classification Justification for use 
Adverse effects and 
mitigation 
Tectona grandis 
 
Non-native 
(Naturalized) 
Introduced species that 
fit the local land, with 
seeds that can be 
harvested by the local 
communities 
None to be noted 
2.4.3 Ecosystem Conversion 
  
  
Risks identified 
  
Mitigation or preventative 
measure(s) taken 
Ecosystem conversion No risk identified. This project aims to restore 
degraded grassland areas 
through the planting of native 
and introduced species. 
Importantly, no natural 
ecosystems will be cleared 
prior to project 
implementation, and there will 
be no conversion of 
surrounding ecosystems. 
Furthermore, the project will 
enhance ecosystem 
productivity by increasing 
vegetation cover in the area. 
3 APPLICATION OF METHODOLOGY 
3.1 Title and Reference of Methodology 
Table 9. Title and reference of methodologies 
84
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Type 
(methodology, 
tool or 
module). 
Reference ID, if 
applicable 
Title Version 
Methodology VM0047 Afforestation, Reforestation, and 
Revegetation  
1.1 
Module  VMD0054 Module for Estimating Leakage from 
ARR Activities  
1.0 
 
Tool AFOLU NPRT AFOLU Non-Permanence Risk Tool  4.2 
Tool AR-AM-TOOL 14 
Methodological tool for the Estimation 
of carbon stocks and change in carbon 
stocks of trees and shrubs in A/R CDM 
project activities 
2.0.0 
Tool VT0008-Additiona
lity Assessment 
Methodological tool to assess 
additionality based on benchmark or 
investment analysis 
1.0.0 
Tool VT0001 
 
Demonstration and Assessment of 
Additionality in VCS Agriculture, 
Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) 
Project Activities 
1.0.0 
3.2 Applicability of Methodology 
The project applies the VCS methodology VM0047 v1.1, which is implemented for the 
‘Afforestation and Reforestation and Revegetation’ projects. The project meets the applicability 
conditions of this methodology, modules and tools which are justified in the table below: 
Table 10. The applicability conditions of VM0047 methodology 
Methodology ID Applicability condition Justification of 
compliance 
VM0047 
Project activities increase 
vegetative cover. 
The project seeks to 
rehabilitate degraded 
landscapes by establishing 
mixed-species tree plantings 
that increase vegetative 
85
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Methodology ID Applicability condition Justification of 
compliance 
cover, sequester carbon, and 
strengthen ecological 
functions. At the same time, 
the agroforestry models 
generate tangible community 
benefits—diversifying 
household income through 
high-value timber, fruit, and 
non-timber forest products; 
improving soil fertility and 
water retention; and creating 
local employment for nursery 
work, planting, and long-term 
maintenance. 
 Area-based, census-based, or a 
combination of the two 
quantification approaches may be 
used, provided approach-specific 
applicability conditions are met. 
Approaches must be selected at 
the project start date and used for 
the entire project crediting period. 
Where the two approaches are 
used together, they must be 
applied in nonoverlapping areas 
defined at the project start. 
Only area-based approach  
will be used on this project. 
 For lands enrolled in a project, the 
quantification approach is 
selected at the project start date 
and used for the entire project 
crediting period 
The area-based approach has 
been used since project start 
date and will be used for the 
entire project lifetime period. 
 The project start date is 
documented as the earliest of the 
following: 
The project start date is 
documented as the date on 
which site preparation begins.   
86
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Methodology ID Applicability condition Justification of 
compliance 
a) The date on 
which site 
preparation 
activities began. 
b) The land use 
change date  
 Where projects take place on 
organic soils or wetlands, ARR 
activities are developed using a 
multiple project activity design, 
applying this methodology to 
account for aboveground biomass 
and using a Wetland Restoration 
and Conservation methodology 
(e.g., VM0036 Methodology for 
Rewetting Drained Temperate 
Peatlands) to account for other 
carbon pools.  
Project activities do not occur 
on organic soils or in 
wetlands. 
 Area-based approach: Project 
activities involve direct planting 
activities (e.g., manual planting, 
broadcast seeding), indirect 
activities associated with assisted 
natural regeneration (e.g., liana 
cutting, weed management, or 
barriers that prevent animal 
grazing), or a combination of 
direct and indirect activities. 
The project includes both 
direct and indirect activities. 
 Area-based approach: Project 
proponents establish a t = 0 
carbon stock estimate for all 
significant carbon pools. The 
method for establishing t = 0 
estimates depends on the activity 
Since the project start date is 
initiated by site preparation, 
the following conditions are 
met:  
a) Before site 
preparation, t = 0 
carbon stock 
87
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Methodology ID Applicability condition Justification of 
compliance 
that initiates the project start 
date.  
Where the project start date is 
initiated by site preparation (e.g., 
clearing invasive species), the 
following conditions must be met: 
a) Before site preparation, 
project proponents 
establish t = 0 carbon 
stock estimates for all 
significant carbon pools. 
b) To ensure accuracy, t = 0 
estimates are established 
no more than two years 
before the start date (e.g., 
if the start date is 2025, 
plots must have been 
established no earlier 
than 2023). 
c) Where plot-based 
measurements are not 
established before site 
preparation, a remote 
sensingbased estimate 
found in Section 8.2.1.2 
may be used, but only for 
pre-existing woody 
biomass. 
Where the project start date is 
defined by a land use change date 
or where the project start did not 
include site preparation that 
caused a significant decrease in 
carbon stocks in monitored 
carbon pools (e.g., pit planting 
without clearing existing 
estimates were 
established for all 
significant carbon 
pools.  
b) t = 0 estimates were 
established no more 
than two years 
before the start date. 
c) Plot-based 
measurements were 
established before 
site preparation. 
88
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Methodology ID Applicability condition Justification of 
compliance 
vegetation) the following 
conditions must be met: 
a) The project proponent 
establishes t = 0 
estimates within two 
years after the project 
start date (e.g., if the start 
date is 2025, plots must 
be established by 2027). 
b) Plot-based sampling 
occurs for all significant 
carbon pools. 
c) Evidence is provided to 
demonstrate that site 
preparation did not 
involve clearing, burning, 
or mechanical 
disturbance of existing 
vegetation that would 
significantly reduce 
monitored carbon pools. 
Evidence may include, but 
is not limited to, 
georeferenced photos, 
field survey data, satellite 
imagery, and signed 
attestations from 
landowners. 
 Area-based approach: Leakage 
must be monitored and quantified 
using VMD0054. It must not be 
assumed to be de minimis. 
Leakage will be monitored 
and quantified using 
VMD0054. Exante leakage 
estimations were also done 
following VMD0054. 
VMD0054 Projects using this module must 
meet all applicability conditions of 
the methodology VM0047 v1.1 
The project meets all the 
applicability conditions set 
out in the applied 
methodology VM0047: 
89
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Methodology ID Applicability condition Justification of 
compliance 
Afforestation, Reforestation and 
Revegetation. 
Afforestation, Reforestation 
and Revegetation v1.0.  
3.3 Project Boundary 
Table 11. Selected carbon pools in the project boundary 
Source 
Included? 
Justification/Explanation 
Aboveground woody biomass  Yes Major carbon pool 
Aboveground non-woody 
biomass 
No Conservatively Excluded.  
Carbon pool does not 
experience significant changes 
as a result of project activity or 
changes are temporary 
Belowground woody biomass Yes Major carbon pool  
Belowground non-woody 
biomass  
No  Conservatively Excluded.  
Carbon pool does not 
experience significant changes 
as a result of project activity or 
changes are temporary 
Dead wood  No  Conservatively Excluded.  
Carbon pool does not 
experience significant changes 
as a result of project activity or 
changes are temporary 
Litter No  Conservatively Excluded.  
Carbon pool does not 
experience significant changes 
as a result of project activity or 
changes are temporary 
Soil Organic Carbon  No Carbon stock in this pool may 
increase due to implementation 
90
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Source 
Included? 
Justification/Explanation 
of the project activity. However 
not included in the ex ante 
estimates.  
Harvested Wood products  No Conservatively excluded 
Table 12.  GHG sources included in or excluded from the project boundary 
Source Gas Included? Justification/Explanation 
Baseline 
Burning of 
biomass 
(whether by 
natural or 
anthropogenic 
causes) 
CO
2
 No Conservatively excluded 
Burning in the area is minimal and transient 
and does not have a significant impact on 
biomass 
CH
4
 No Conservatively excluded 
Burning in the area is minimal and transient 
and does not have a significant impact on 
biomass 
N
2
O No Conservatively excluded 
Burning in the area is minimal and transient 
and does not have a significant impact on 
biomass 
Other No Not applicable 
Emissions from 
nitrogen 
fertilizer 
CO
2
 No Conservatively excluded 
The use of inorganic fertilisers in the project 
area has not taken place. 
CH
4
 No Conservatively excluded 
The use of inorganic fertilisers in the project 
area has not taken place 
N
2
O No Conservatively excluded 
The use of inorganic fertilisers in the project 
area has not taken place 
Other No Not applicable 
The use of inorganic fertilisers in the project 
area has not taken place 
Burning of 
fossil fuels 
CO
2
 No Conservatively excluded  
Burning of fossil fuels in the project area or 
activity is not common and does not occur. 
Ensuring sustainable practices the burning of 
fossil fuels is not included.  
CH
4
 No Conservatively excluded  
91
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Source Gas Included? Justification/Explanation 
Burning of fossil fuels in the project area or 
activity is not common and does not occur. 
Ensuring sustainable practices the burning of 
fossil fuels is not included.  
N
2
O No Conservatively excluded  
Burning of fossil fuels in the project area or 
activity is not common and does not occur. 
Ensuring sustainable practices the burning of 
fossil fuels is not included.  
Other No Not applicable 
Burning of fossil fuels in the project area or 
activity is not common and does not occur. 
Ensuring sustainable practices the burning of 
fossil fuels is not included.  
Project 
Burning of 
biomass 
(whether by 
natural or 
anthropogenic 
causes) 
CO
2
 No Conservatively excluded 
The burning of biomass is not part of the 
project activity and to further ensure that 
burning of biomass by natural or 
anthropogenic causes does not take place or 
has minimal impact the project has in the land 
management plans fire mitigation measures.  
CH
4
 No Conservatively excluded 
The burning of biomass is not part of the 
project activity and to further ensure that 
burning of biomass by natural or 
anthropogenic causes does not take place or 
has minimal impact the project has in the land 
management plans fire mitigation measures.  
N
2
O No Conservatively excluded 
The burning of biomass is not part of the 
project activity and to further ensure that 
burning of biomass by natural or 
anthropogenic causes does not take place or 
has minimal impact the project has in the land 
management plans fire mitigation measures.  
Other No Conservatively excluded 
The burning of biomass is not part of the 
project activity and to further ensure that 
burning of biomass by natural or 
anthropogenic causes does not take place or 
has minimal impact the project has in the land 
management plans fire mitigation measures.  
92
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Source Gas Included? Justification/Explanation 
Emissions from 
nitrogen 
fertilizer 
CO
2
 No Conservatively Excluded 
The species planted are well adapted to the 
project area ecosystem, and the agroforestry 
model will include nitrogen fixing species to 
decrease the requirement of any nutrient 
inputs from fertilizers. 
CH
4
 No Conservatively Excluded 
The species planted are well adapted to the 
project area ecosystem, and the agroforestry 
model will include nitrogen fixing species to 
decrease the requirement of any nutrient 
inputs from fertilizers. 
N
2
O No Conservatively Excluded 
The species planted are well adapted to the 
project area ecosystem, and the agroforestry 
model will include nitrogen fixing species to 
decrease the requirement of any nutrient 
inputs from fertilizers. 
Other No Not applicable 
Burning of 
fossil fuels 
CO
2
 No De minimis 
CH
4
 No De minimis 
N
2
O No De minimis 
Other No De minimis 
3.4 Baseline Scenario 
 
 
 
                                                                                    
3.5 Additionality 
According to section 3.14 of the VCS Standard v4.7, the following requirements must be fulfil led 
to demonstrate and assess the additionality of the project with the application of the 
methodology VM0047: Afforestation, Reforestation and Revegetation v1.0 
1. The project shall demonstrate regulatory surplus at the validation and renewal of each 
project-crediting period. Regulatory surplus means that project activities shall not be 
93
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
mandated by any law, statute, or other regulatory framework, or for UNFCCC non-Annex I 
countries, any systematically enforced law, statute, or other regulatory framework. 
2. Additionality shall be demonstrated and assessed per the requirements in the 
methodology applied to the project (without exceptions). 
A regulatory surplus and a stepwise method will be applied to demonstrate the area-based and 
census-based approaches.   
3.5.1 Regulatory Surplus  
Is the project located in an UNFCCC Annex 1 or Non-Annex 1 country? 
  ☐   Annex 1 country    ☒  Non-Annex 1 country 
Are the project activities mandated by any law, statute, or other regulatory framework? 
☐  Yes     ☒ No 
If the project is located inside a Non-Annex 1 country and the project activities are 
mandated by a law, statute, or other regulatory framework, are such laws, statutes, or 
regulatory frameworks systematically enforced?  
☐  Yes     ☒ No 
The project is aligned with regulatory surplus requirements as it is not mandated under any 
existing Indonesian or local North Sulawesi law or policy. While Indonesia has enacted several 
supportive regulations encouraging reforestation (e.g., Presidential Regulation No. 98/2021 and 
Ministerial Regulation No. 7/2023), none of these compel private or community landowners to 
undertake afforestation, reforestation or revegetation on degraded lands categorized as APL 
(Area Penggunaan Lain or "Other Use Area") . 
Landowners in the project area retain the right to continue current land-use practices (such as 
coconut, clove, and nutmeg monocultures) without legal obligation to engage in restoration. The 
degraded status of the lands and the absence of legally binding reforestation mandates confir m 
that project activities are not legally required and meet the regulatory surplus test . 
 
3.5.2 Additionality Methods 
Three steps are to be followed for the area-based approach to demonstrate the project's 
additionality, and four steps are to be followed for the census-based approach.  
Area-based approach  
Step 1: Regulatory Surplus: Detailed in section 3.5.1  
94
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
The project operates outside mandatory Indonesian or North Sulawesi laws regarding ARR. 
While supportive national regulations exist, private landowners in the project area are not legally 
obligated to restore degraded lands classifie d as APL (Area Penggunaan Lain or "Other Use 
Area") . They can continue current land uses. The lack of legal mandates for reforestation 
confirms the project activities are voluntary and meet the regulatory surplus test. 
Step 2: Performance Benchmark: In alignment with the methodology, the project demonstrates 
additionality by showing that the observed or modelled vegetative recovery in the project area 
significantly exceeds that of control plots within a well-defined donor pool area (as defined in 
VM0047) . 
A geospatial analysis was conducted using matched control plots selected from a 100 km radius 
surrounding the project area, ensuring similarity in elevation, slope, soil types, and climatic zones. 
Remote sensing data was used to calculate the stocking index (SI) and track changes in 
vegetative cover between the project and control areas. 
The performance benchmark compares the changes in the biomass stock in the project area 
compared to selected control plots, analogous to the project area in the absence of the 
activities. 
Performance benchmark will be established for each geographic area and updated with every 
baseline reassessment. The procedure as guided by VM0047 methodology for establishing the 
performance benchmark will be fully documented in the project’s monitoring plan and control 
plots during validation. 
Step 3: Investment Barrier: The project faces financial and investment barriers in the absence 
of carbon finance, mainly due to: 
● High upfront costs: Establishing agroforestry systems, soil amendments (biochar, 
organic fertilizers), nurseries, and training programs imposes signific ant capital 
requirements. 
● Delayed revenue: The project's cash flow model indicates that financial returns from 
non-carbon sources (e.g., harvest of agroforestry products) are not expected to fully 
cover costs during the initial 5–7 years. 
● Limited access to capital: Smallholders in the project area often lack access to credit or 
formal financing mechanisms, constraining their ability to invest in long-term land 
restoration. 
An investment comparison analysis (as required under the VCS Methodology Requirements 
Section 3.5.5) demonstrates that without carbon credit revenue, the project's internal rate of 
return (IRR) falls well below acceptable thresholds for rural investments in Indonesia . 
3.6 Methodology Deviations 
There are no methodological deviations.  
95
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
4 QUANTIFICATION OF ESTIMATED GHG EMISSION 
REDUCTIONS AND REMOVALS 
4.1 Baseline Emissions
 
 
4.1.1. Step 1: Selection of project plots 
A stratified random sampling design is applied to ensure statistically robust and spatially 
representative carbon stock estimation. Given the project area is predominantly degraded 
grassland with similar biomass, stratification is implemented at the village level based on 
the area of eligible land. Plot allocation is area-weighted, and plot locations within each 
stratum are selected through random stratifie d sampling approach. A total of 68 project 
plots are established during the baseline phase, providing sufficient statistical reliability 
while remaining logistically feasible. Square plots measuring 30m x 30m are used for 
compatibility with spatial data (e.g., pixel-based monitoring) and alignment with Indonesia’s 
National Forest Inventory (NFI). 
 
Table 14.  Distribution of sampling points in the project area 
Location Eligible Area (ha) % of Total Area 
No. of Sampling Points 
North Sulawesi 6000 100 68 
  
4.1.2. Step 2: Selection of control plots for each project plot 
Table 15. Factors and source of data to delineate the donor pool area  
Factor 
  
Procedure and data source (GIS layer) 
Jurisdictional boundary 
(Required) 
The project area is not within a subnational jurisdiction either 
registered under Jurisdictional and Nested REDD+ (JNR) or delineated 
by the Jurisdictional boundary national or subnational government for 
reporting REDD+ (e.g., delineated as a discrete Forest Reference 
Emission Level). The jurisdictional boundary used is the national 
boundary. 
Ecoregion (Required) The donor pool excludes any areas not within the same ecoregion as 
the project. 
96
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Policy environment (Required) The donor pool area excludes the areas of the jurisdictional boundary 
with presence/absence of any operating subnational 
government-funded program providing incentives for tree planting 
that differs from the project area. 
Outside any registered AFOLU 
project (Optional) 
The donor pool area excludes AFOLU projects registered under Verra. 
Land tenure (Required) All land tenure classifications present in the project area are 
represented in the donor pool. The project area is on private land.  
Land tenure excludes areas identified as protected areas/ restricted 
areas. 
Distance from project 
(Required) 
Areas beyond a 100km radius of the centroid of each project plot were 
excluded. 
  
The historic and initial conditions of the stocking index were quantified using observational time 
series data from 2015 to 2025. In addition to the mandatory stocking index, terrain variables 
including elevation and slope were incorporated as covariates during the control plot matching 
process. 
 
Table 16. Covariates and source of data used to delineate the donor pool area 
Factor Description 
Stocking Index (Required) Stocking index (NDFI) from four time points during the historic 
period spanning 8-10 years immediately prior to the project start 
date, minimally including values for the beginning of the historic 
period (not before t= -10 and no later than t=-8) and for time t=0, 
was used to select the control plots. 
Terrain Elevation and slope derived from elevation data was used to select 
the control plots. 
  
For each project plot, k = 5 unique control plots were selected and assigned weights according to 
the procedures described in Appendix 1 of VM0047 v1.1, resulting in a total of 340 matched 
control plots. 
 
4.1.3. Step 3: Evaluate match quality and finalize matching
 
Match quality between the population of project plots and the population of control 
plots has been evaluated for each covariate. 
97
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
  
Using the following VM0047, Equation. 
  
 
 
 
                                           
            4.1.4. Step 4: Monitoring Control and Project Plots
 
The performance benchmark will be derived from monitoring the stocking index (SI) in control 
and project plots. 
Each control and project plot will be assessed and SI values will be recorded at each monitoring 
event using the most recent suitable imagery. A control plot will be deemed invalid if it becomes 
subject to government funded tree planting incentives not applicable to the project area or falls 
within the boundary of a registered AFOLU project. In such cases, the control plot will be 
excluded and replaced with a suitable alternative from the donor pool defin ed in Step 2, and 
control plot weights & match quality will be assessed  accordingly. 
4.1.5. Step 5: Deriving and Evaluating Slopes for Stocking Index Time 
Series 
The accumulated time series of stocking index change (ΔSI) for both control and project plots 
will be assembled from the project start year (t = 0) through the monitoring year t. The derivation 
of the stocking index for each monitoring interval will include at minimum two annual time steps, 
t and t = 0, and will incorporate observations from all previous verifications. 
Only those project plots and their matched control plots for which stocking index (SI) values are 
available at time t will be included in the analysis. Where SI values are unavailable for any plot 
within a matched set (for example, due to cloud cover or temporary sensor limitations), the entire 
98
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
matched set will be excluded from the derivation of ΔSI for that monitoring interval. A minimum 
of 30 project plots will be maintained to ensure a representative sample of the project area. 
The average annual rate of change in stocking index for control plots (ΔSIcontrol,t) and project 
plots (ΔSIwp,t) will be estimated as slopes derived from weighted least squares regression 
(WLSR) applied to the accumulated SI time series. 
Weights for control plot observations will be calculated as: 
 
Where: 
Wcontrol,i,j,t = Weight of control plot j matched to project plot i at time t; 
Wcontrol,i,j = Initial matching weight assigned to the control plot; 
n_rst = Number of project plots with matched control plots assessed at time t. 
Weights for project plot observations will be calculated as: 
 
Where: 
Wwp,i,t = Weight of project plot i at time t; 
n_rst = Number of project plots with matched control plots assessed at time t. 
Using these weights, the slope of the stocking index over time for control plots (ΔSIcontrol,t) and 
project plots (ΔSIwp,t) will be estimated through weighted regression of SI against time, 
reflecting both plot representativeness and the accumulation of observations over successive 
monitoring periods. 
Later, the statistical significance of the difference between the control and project slopes will be 
evaluated using a Z-test as follows: 
 
99
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Where: 
Z = Z-statistic (unitless); 
ΔSIwp,t = Weighted average annual increase in stocking index in project plots through year t; 
ΔSIcontrol,t = Weighted average annual increase in stocking index in control plots through year t; 
SE2ΔSIwp,t   and SE2ΔSIcontrol,t = The squared standard errors of the respective slope 
estimates; 
t = Number of years elapsed since the project start date. 
Where the absolute value of Z is equal to or greater than 1.96, the difference between project 
and control plot growth rates will be considered statistically signific ant for the purpose of 
assessing common practice additionality. 
4.1.6. Step 6: Deriving the Performance Benchmark
 
The performance benchmark (PB ) will be derived by comparing the average annual increase in 
the stocking index (ΔSI) between control and project plots. Where ΔSIcontrol,t and ΔSIwp,t are 
not significantly different (|Z| < 1.96), PB  will be set equal to 1 and following equation will not be 
applied. Where the difference is statistically signific ant (|Z| ≥ 1.96), PB  will be calculated as: 
 
Where: 
PB  = performance benchmark for the monitoring interval ending at year t (dimensionless); 
ΔSIcontrol,t = average annual increase in stocking index (SI) in control plots through year t; 
ΔSIwp,t = average annual increase in stocking index (SI) in project plots through year t 
t =  the number of years elapsed since the project start date. 
If the slope of the control plots (ΔSIcontrol,t) is insignificant (P > 0.05) or negative, it will be set to 
zero for the purpose of calculating the performance benchmark.            
 
 
4.2 Project Emissions 
The calculations of carbon stock changes and project emissions differ by quantification 
approach. The area-based quantification employed by this project is summarized in 
Figure 13. 
100
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
Figure 13. Summary of Calculations for Area-based Approach 
The census-based quantification employed by this project is summarized in Figure 14. 
 
Figure 14. Summary of Calculations for Census-based Approach 
101
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
As per VM0047, leakage and performance benchmark are not included in calculations 
and set equal to zero, soil organic carbon is excluded, and biomass carbon is restricted to 
(live) woody biomass in the case of census-based approach.
 
4.3 Leakage Emissions 
Estimating Leakage from ARR Activities. The Leakage Tool calculates leakage by 
combining three factors: the foregone production in the project area, carrying capacity of 
the landscape, and the carbon density of the standing forest. 
 
4.3.1. Step 1: Determine the Foregone Production in Project Area (VMD0054 Section 5.1) 
The baseline agricultural and fuelwood commodity production in the project area must 
be demonstrated using historical production records for each commodity during the 
chosen reference period. The project will use historical data to demonstrate that 
production is not displaced and determine the amount of production displaced if any 
does occur.  
 
Baseline production is calculated according to (VMD0054 Equation 1): 
퐵푃
푗
,
푡
 
=   × (1 + 푟푗 )
푡 
ℎ=1
퐻
∑푃푗,ℎ
퐻
Where: 
퐵푃푗,푡           =     Baseline production in the project area for commodity j in year t (units 
of production) 
푝
푗
,
ℎ
               =     Production in the project area for commodity j in year h of the historical 
reference period (units of production) determined by farmers records. 
퐻                  =     Duration of historical reference period (3 years) 
푟푗                 =     Annual growth rate of yield for commodity j (percent) set to the default 
value (2.5 percent) 
푡                    =     1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since the project start date 
 
Foregone production is calculated according to (VMD0054 Equation 2): 
퐹푃
푗
,
푡
 
= 퐵푃
푗
,
푡
 − 푀푃
푗
,
푡
 
Where: 
퐹푃
푗
,
푡
              =     Foregone production in the project area for commodity j in year t (units 
of  production) 
퐵푃
푗
,
푡
                      
=     Baseline production in the project area for commodity j in year t (units 
of production) 
102
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
푀푃
푗
,
푡
             =     Monitored production in the project area for up to five years after the 
project start date for commodity j in year t (units of production) 
푡                     =     1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since the project start date 
 
4.3.2. Step 2: Determine the impact of Leakage Mitigation Activities (VMD0054 Section 
5.2) 
The project does not plan to implement activities outside the project area that reduce the 
amount of leakage and so there is no leakage mitigation in place. That means that the 
baseline production in the leakage mitigation area will be 0 and LMj,t will be equal to the 
foregone production in the project area if any occurs. However, if any leakage mitigation 
activities are implemented during the project lifetime, those will be considered for the 
leakage calculation. 
The amount of foregone production that may result in leakage is calculated according to 
VMD0054 Equation 5: 
푙
푗
,
푡
 = 푀퐴푋(퐹푃
푗
,
푡
 
− 퐿푀
푗
,
푡
, 0) 
 
Where: 
푙
푗
,
푡
                        
     =     Amount of foregone production subject to leakage for commodity j in  
year t (units of production); minimum value is zero 
퐹푃
푗
,
푡
 
               =     Foregone production in the project area for commodity j in year t 
(units of production) 
퐿푀
푗
,
푡
                        
=     Baseline production in the leakage mitigation area for commodity j in 
year t (units of production) 
푡                        =   1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since the project start date 
 
4.3.3. Step 3. Determine the Amount of New Lands Brought into Production (VMD0054 
Section 5.3) 
Where the amount of foregone production is greater than zero, the amount of new land 
brought into production outside the project area will be calculated as described in 
VM0054 Equation 6: 
퐼푁퐿
푗
,
푡
 
= 
 
푙푗,푡×퐼푆×푁퐿푗
푦푗,푡
Where: 
퐼푁퐿
푗
,
푡
                                   
=
 
   Area of new land brought into production for commodity j in year t 
(ha) 
103
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
푙
푗
,
푡
                                              
=
 
   Amount of foregone production subject to leakage for commodity j 
in year t (units of production); minimum value is zero 
퐼푆                     
       
=
 
   Share of leakage resulting in increased supply outside the project 
area, or default value of 0.75 (75 percent) for agricultural 
commodities or 1.00 (100 percent) for fuelwood 
푁퐿
푗
                
              
=
 
   Share of increased supply from new land brought into production 
for commodity j, or default value of 0.40 (40 percent) for 
agricultural commodities or 1.00 (100 percent) for fuelwood 
y
j,t 
                              =
 
   Yield on new land brought into production for commodity j in year 
t (units of production ha
-1
) 
푡                                  =
 
   1, 2, 3,..., t years elapsed since the project start date 
The total area generating leakage emissions is calculated according to VMD0054 
Equation 7: 
퐴퐿
푡
 =  
푗=1
퐽
∑퐼푁퐿푗,푡
Where: 
퐴퐿
푡
                       
 
=
 
   Area generating leakage emissions in year t (ha) 
퐼푁퐿
푗
,
푡
                    
 
=
 
   Area of new land brought into production for commodity j in year t 
(ha) 
j                             
 
=
 
   Total number of commodities produced in historical reference 
period 
푡                             
 
=
 
   1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since the project start date 
 
4.3.4. Step 4: Determine the Change in Carbon Stocks in New Lands Brought into 
Production (VMD0054 Section 5.4) 
New land brought into production is assumed to be forested and the change in carbon 
stocks in calculated according to VMD0054 Equation 8: 
퐶푆 = ∆퐶
푏푖표푚푎푠푠
 
+ ∆푆푂퐶 
Where: 
퐶푆                      
 
=
 
   Change in carbon stocks on new lands brought into production (t C 
ha
-1
) 
∆퐶
푏푖표푚푎푠푠
          
 
=
 
   Change in forest biomass carbon stocks equal to the in the regional 
average stock in which the project is located (t C ha
-1
) 
∆푆푂퐶                 
 
=
 
   Change in soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks in the region in which the 
project is located (t C ha
-1
) 
104
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
The change in SOC stock is calculated as the difference between initial reference stocks 
and estimated future, steady-state stocks at the end of 20 years according to VMD0054 
Equation 9: 
∆푆푂퐶 = 푆푂퐶
푅퐸퐹
 × (1.00 − 푓
퐿푈
 
× 푓
푀퐺
 × 푓
퐼푁
) 
Where: 
∆푆푂퐶                   
 
=
 
   Change in SOC stock in the area generating leakage emissions (t C 
ha
-1
) 
푆푂퐶
푅퐸퐹
                
 
=
 
   SOC stock corresponding to the reference condition in native 
ecosystems by climate region and soil type applicable to the land 
receiving the displaced activity (t C ha
-1
) 
푓
퐿푈
, 푓
푀퐺
 , 푓
퐼푁
       
 
=
 
   Relative SOC stock change factors over 20 years for land use, 
management practices and inputs respectively, applicable to the 
displaced production (dimensionless) 
4.3.5. Step 5: Determine Leakage Emissions (VMD0054 Section 5.5) 
Leakage is calculated according to VMD0054 Equation 10: 
퐿퐾
푡
 = 퐴퐿
푡
 × 퐶푆 ×  
44
12
Where: 
퐿퐾푡             
 
=
 
   Cumulative leakage up to year t (t CO
2
e) 
퐴퐿푡             
 
=
 
   Change in carbon stocks on new lands brought into production (t C ha
-1
) 
퐶푆               
 
=
 
   Change in carbon stocks on new lands brought into production (t C ha
-1
) 
                
  
=
 
   Conversion factor from C to CO
2
e 
44
12
푡                 
   
=
 
   1, 2, 3,..., t years elapsed since the project start date 
 
4.4 Estimated GHG Emission Reductions and Carbon Dioxide Removals 
 
4.4.1. Estimation of Carbon Dioxide Removals 
Area based quantification 
According to the VM0047 Equation 30, the carbon dioxide removal by sinks is: 
105
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
퐶푅
푡
 = ( ((Δ퐶
푊푃
,
푡
 
×(1 − 푃퐵
푡
)×(1 − 푈푁퐶
푡
))− 퐿퐾
푡
)− 푃퐸
푡
−((Δ퐶
푊푃
,
푡
−1
×(1−푃퐵
푡
−1
)×(1− 푈푁퐶
푡
−1
))- 
푃퐸
푡
−1 
−퐿퐾
푡
−1
) 
Where: 
퐶푅
푡
                     =
 
   Carbon dioxide removals from the project activity in year t (t CO
2
e) 
훥퐶
푊푃
,
푡
                         
=
 
    Project carbon stock change in year t (t CO
2
e) 
푃퐵
푡
                             
=
 
   Performance benchmark for the monitoring interval ending in year t 
(%) 
퐿퐾
푡
                    =
 
   Leakage through year t (t CO
2
e) 
푈푁퐶
푡
                =
 
   Uncertainty in cumulative removals through year t (%) 
푃퐸
푡
   
                    =
 
   Project emissions from biomass burning and fertilizer in year t (t 
CO
2
e) 
t                         =   1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since the project start date 
 
 
4.4.2. Project Carbon Stock Changes (Section 8.2.1 of VM0047) 
The procedure for the quantification of carbon stock changes and project emissions for 
ARR activities are calculated based on the agroforestry development and following the 
area-based quantification approach following the methodology VM0047 v1.1. The project 
emissions from the agroforestry model for this project are estimated as follows (VM0047 
Equation 1): 
∆퐶
푊푃
,
푡 
 
= (∆퐶
푊푃
−
푏푖표푚푎푠푠
,
푡
 + ∆퐶
푊푃
−
푆푂퐶
,
푡
) × 
 
44
12
Where: 
∆퐶
푊푃
,
푡
  
 
= 
Project carbon stock change in year t (t CO
2
e) 
∆퐶
푊푃
−
푏푖표푚푎푠푠
,
푡
 
= 
Change in carbon stock in biomass carbon pools in the 
project scenario through year t (t C) 
∆퐶
푊푃
−
푆푂퐶
,
푡
 
= 
Change in carbon stock in soil organic carbon (SOC) 
pools in the project scenario through year t (t C) 
 
44
12
= 
Ratio of the molecular weight of carbon dioxide to 
carbon (unitless) 
106
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
t 
= 
1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since project start date 
 
 
Change in carbon stock in biomass carbon pools in the project scenario are estimated as 
follows (VM0047 Equation 2): 
 
∆퐶
푊푃
−
푏푖표푚푎푠푠
,
푡
 
= ∆퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
 
+ ∆퐶
푊푃
−
ℎ푒푟푏
,
푡
 
+ ∆퐶
푊푃
−
퐷푊
,
푡
 
+ ∆퐶
푊푃
−
퐿퐼
,
푡 
 
Where: 
∆퐶
푊푃
−
푏푖표푚푎푠푠
,
푡
 
 
= Change in carbon stock in biomass carbon pools in the 
project scenario through year t (t C) 
 
∆퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
   
 
= Change in carbon stock in woody biomass in the project 
scenario through year t (t C)  
∆퐶
푊푃
−
ℎ푒푟푏
,
푡 
 
= Change in carbon stock in non-woody biomass in the 
project scenario through year t (t C) 
∆퐶
푊푃
−
퐷푊
,
푡  
 
= Change in carbon stock in dead wood in the project 
scenario through year t (t C) 
∆퐶
푊푃
−
퐿퐼
,
푡  
 
= Change in carbon stock in litter in the project scenario 
through year t (t C) 
t 
= 
1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since project start date 
 
 
4.4.2.1 Woody Biomass (Section 8.2.1.1 of VM0047) 
Area-based quantification 
The net carbon stock change in tree biomass in the project scenario is estimated using 
VM0047 Equation 3: 
Δ퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
 
= 퐴 × (퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
 
− 퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
=0) 
Where: 
107
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Δ퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
 
= Change in carbon stock in woody biomass in the project 
scenario through year t (t C) 
퐴 
= Area (ha) 
퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
 
= Average carbon stock in woody biomass in the project 
scenario in year t (t C ha-1) 
푡 
= 
1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since project start date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And VM0047 Equation 4: 
퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
 
= 퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
−
퐴퐵
,
푡
 
× (1 + 푅) 
Where: 
퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
,
푡
 
= Average carbon stock in woody biomass in the project 
scenario in year t (t C ha-1) 
퐶
푊푃
−
푤표표푑푦
−
퐴퐵
,
푡
 
= Average carbon stock in aboveground woody biomass in 
the project   scenario in year t (t C ha-1) 
푅 
= Root to shoot ratio for tree or shrub (t root d.m. t shoot-1 
d.m.) 
푡 
= 
1, 2, 3, ..., t years elapsed since project start date 
 
4.5 Estimated GHG Emission Reductions and Carbon Dioxide Removals 
108
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
The results of the estimation of net GHG Emissions Reductions and Removals by the project are 
given in Table 17. The number of GHG credits issued to projects is determined by subtracting out 
the buffer credits from the GHG emission reductions or carbon dioxide removals (including 
leakage) associated with the project. The buffer credits are calculated by multiplying the 
non-permanence risk rating (as determined by the AFOLU Non-Permanence Risk Tool) times the 
change in carbon stocks only.  
State the non-permanence risk rating (%) 
20%  
Has the non-permanence risk report been 
attached as either an appendix or a separate 
document? 
  ☒     Yes ☐   No 
For ARR and IFM projects with harvesting, 
state, in tCO2e, the Long-term Average (LTA).  
LTA has been applied for species with 
harvesting 
Has the LTA been updated based on 
monitored data, if applicable? 
 ☒     Yes   ☐    No 
State, in tCO
2
e, the expected total GHG 
benefit to date. 
0 
Is the number of GHG credits issued below 
the LTA? 
☒     Yes ☐     No 
 
 
Table 17 . Estimation of net GHG emissions reduction and removals 
Vintage 
period  
Estimated 
baseline 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
project 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
leakage 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
Buffer pool 
allocation 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
reduction 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
removal 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
total VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
01-Jan-2025 
to 
31-Dec-2025 
     
2,992                    -                      -                        -   
         
(2,992) 
    
01-Jan-2026 
to 
31-Dec-2026 
     
8,976 
                   -                      -                        -   
         
(8,976) 
    
01- Jan-2027 
to 
31-Dec-2027 
  17,956 18,229                    -                        -   274 
    
01- Jan-2028 
to 
31-Dec-2028 
   
29,924 
        
72,309 
          
-   
               
9,784 
        
60,614 
         
20,906 
         
20,906 
109
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Vintage 
period  
Estimated 
baseline 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
project 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
leakage 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
Buffer pool 
allocation 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
reduction 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
removal 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
total VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
01- Jan-2029 
to 
31-Dec-2029 
   
11,972 
      
167,738 
                   -             
31,153 
      
155,766 
       
124,613 
       
145,519 
01-Jan-2030 
to 
31-Dec-2030 
              -            
321,827 
                   -             
64,365 
      
321,827 
       
257,462 
       
402,981 
01-Jan-2031 
to 
31-Dec-2031 
              -         
361,848 
                   -             
72,370 
      
361,848 
       
289,478 
       
692,459 
01-Jan-2032 
to 
31-Dec-2032 
              -         
405,410 
                   -             
81,082 
      
405,410 
       
324,328 
    
1,016,787 
01-Jan-2033 
to 
31-Dec-2033 
              -         
530,676 
                   -           
106,135 
      
530,676 
       
424,541 
    
1,441,328 
01-Jan-2034 
to 
31-Dec-2034 
              -         
584,198 
                   -           
116,840 
      
584,198 
       
467,358 
    
1,908,686 
01-Jan-2035 
to 
31-Dec-2035 
              -         
577,371 
                   -           
115,474 
      
577,371 
       
461,897 
    
2,370,583 
01-Jan-2036 
to 
31-Dec-2036 
              -         
499,556 
                   -             
99,911 
      
499,556 
       
399,645 
    
2,770,228 
01-Jan-2037 
to 
31-Dec-2037 
              -         
385,808 
                   -             
77,162 
      
385,808 
       
308,646 
    
3,078,874 
01-Jan-2038 
to 
31-Dec-2038 
              -         
209,160 
                   -             
41,832 
      
209,160 
       
167,328 
    
3,246,202 
01-Jan-2039 
to 
31-Dec-2039 
              -   
      
112,897 
                
-   
          
22,579 
        
112,897 
         
90,318 
    
3,336,520 
01-Jan-2040 
to 
31-Dec-2040 
              -   
        
98,449 
                   -             
19,690 
        
98,449 
         
78,759 
    
3,415,279 
01-Jan-2041 
to 
31-Dec-2041 
              -   
        
99,722 
                   -             
19,944 
        
99,722 
         
79,778 
    
3,495,057 
01-Jan-2042 
to 
31-Dec-2042 
              -   
        
99,163 
                   -             
19,833 
        
99,163 
         
79,330 
    
3,574,387 
01-Jan-2043 
to 
31-Dec-2043 
              -   
        
95,028 
                   -             
19,006 
        
95,028 
         
76,022 
    
3,650,409 
01-Jan-2044 
to 
31-Dec-2044 
              -   
        
95,034 
                   -             
19,007 95,034 
         
76,027 
    
3,726,436 
01-Jan-2045 
to 
31-Dec-2045 
              -   
        
96,315 
                   -             
19,263 
        
96,315 
         
77,052 
    
3,803,488 
110
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Vintage 
period  
Estimated 
baseline 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
project 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
leakage 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
Buffer pool 
allocation 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
reduction 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
removal 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
total VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
01-Jan-2046 
to 
31-Dec-2046 
              -   
        
94,224 
                   -             
18,845 
        
94,224 
         
75,379 
    
3,878,867 
01-Jan-2047 
to 
31-Dec-2047 
              -   
        
86,917 
                   -             
17,383 
        
86,917 
         
69,534 
    
3,948,401 
01-Jan-2048 
to 
31-Dec-2048 
              -   
        
76,034 
             
-   
          
15,207 
        
76,034 
         
60,827 
    
4,009,228 
01-Jan-2049 
to 
31-Dec-2049 
              -   
        
72,819 
                   -             
14,564 
        
72,819 
         
58,255 
    
4,067,483 
01-Jan-2050 
to 
31-Dec-2050 
              -   
        
74,124 
                   -             
14,825 
        
74,124 
         
59,299 
    
4,126,782 
01-Jan-2051 
to 
31-Dec-2051 
              -   
        
75,426 
                   -             
15,085 
        
75,426 
         
60,341 
    
4,187,123 
01-Jan-2052 
to 
31-Dec-2052 
              -   
        
76,723                    -   
          
15,345 
        
76,723 
         
61,378 
    
4,248,501 
01-Jan-2053 
to 
31-Dec-2053 
              -   
        
78,016                    -   
          
15,603 
        
78,016 
         
62,413 
    
4,310,914 
01-Jan-2054 
to 
31-Dec-2054 
              -   
        
79,304                    -   
          
15,861 
        
79,304 
         
63,443 
    
4,374,357 
01-Jan-2055 
to 
31-Dec-2055 
              -   
        
80,587                    -   
          
16,117 
        
80,587 
         
64,470 
    
4,438,827 
01-Jan-2056 
to 
31-Dec-2056 
              -   
        
81,865                    -   
          
16,373 
        
81,865 
         
65,492 
    
4,504,319 
01-Jan-2057 
to 
31-Dec-2057 
              -   
        
83,139                    -   
          
16,628 
        
83,139 
         
66,511 
    
4,570,830 
01-Jan-2058 
to 
31-Dec-2058 
              -   
        
84,407                    -   
          
16,881 
        
84,407 
         
67,526 
    
4,638,356 
01-Jan-2059 
to 
31-Dec-2059 
              -   
           
85,669                    -   
          
17,134 
        
85,669 
         
68,535 
    
4,706,891 
01-Jan-2060 
to 
31-Dec-2060 
              -   
        
86,927                    -   
          
17,385 
        
86,927 
         
69,542 
    
4,776,433 
01-Jan-2061 
to 
31-Dec-2061 
              -   
        
88,179                    -   
          
17,636 
        
88,179 
         
70,543 
    
4,846,976 
01-Jan-2062 
to 
31-Dec-2062 
              -   
        
89,425                    -   
          
17,885 
        
89,425 
            
71,540 
    
4,918,516 
111
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Vintage 
period  
Estimated 
baseline 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
project 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
leakage 
emissions 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
Buffer pool 
allocation 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
reduction 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
removal 
VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
Estimated 
total VCUs 
(tCO
2
e) 
01-Jan-2063 
to 
31-Dec-2063 
              -   
        
90,665                    -   
          
18,133 
        
90,665 
         
72,532 
    
4,991,048 
01-Jan-2064 
to 
31-Dec-2064 
              -   
        
88,983                    -   
          
17,797 
        
88,983 
         
71,186 
    
5,080,463 
Total    71,819 6,404,169         -   1,270,116  5,080,463   
 
5 MONITORING 
5.1 Data and Parameters Available at Validation 
Data / Parameter 
A 
Data unit 
ha 
Description 
Project area 
Equations 
(3) 
Source of data 
GIS data analysis 
Value applied 
Project specific - Intended project area 6,000 ha 
Justification of choice 
of data or description 
of measurement 
methods and 
procedures applied 
The delineation of the project area was or will be (for future PAIs) 
carried out using GIS data, ground survey data with GPS, remote 
imagery (satellite or aerial photographs), or other appropriate data. 
All imagery or GIS datasets used will be geo-registered referencing 
corner points, clear landmarks or other intersection points. 
 Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the area-based 
quantification approach  
Comments 
The project activity will contain more than one discreet area of 
land. Each discrete area of land must have a unique geographic 
identification. 
 
Data / Parameter 
Biomass Expansion Factor (BEF) 
112
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Data unit 
dimensionless 
Description 
Biomass expansion factor for conversion of annual net increment 
(including bark) to aboveground tree biomass increment 
Source of data 
2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories 
Value applied 
1.5 
Justification of choice 
of data or description 
of measurement 
methods and 
procedures applied 
BEFs given here represent averages for average growing stock or 
age. The values apply to growing stock biomass (dry weight) 
including bark and for given minimum diameter at breast height; 
Minimum top diameters and treatment of branches is unspecified. 
This is for tropical, broadleaf species. 
 Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the area-based 
quantification approach  
Comments 
For ex post estimation the indicated average value will be used 
unless transparent and verifiable information can be provided to 
justify a different value. 
 
Data / Parameter 
Root to Shoot Ratio (R) 
Data unit 
dimensionless 
Description 
Root to shoot ratio (i.e., ratio of belowground (root) biomass to 
aboveground biomass, per unit area or per stem)  
Equations 
(4), (7) 
Source of data 
R is estimated using the recommended equation taken from the 
CDM AR-TOOL14 "Estimation of carbon stocks and change in 
carbon stocks of trees and shrubs in A/R CDM project activities" 
(Version 4.2) and will be calculated based on estimated 
aboveground biomass (b) for each verification period. 
Value applied 
0.25 
Justification of choice 
of data or description 
of measurement 
methods and 
procedures applied 
Equation proposed by the CDM AR-TOOL14 "Estimation of carbon 
stocks and change in carbon stocks of trees and shrubs in A/R 
CDM project activities" (Version 4.2). 
 Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the area-based 
quantification approach  
113
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Comments 
None 
 
Data / Parameter 
N 
Data unit 
Integer 
Description 
Initial population size (number of planting units) 
Equations 
(6) 
Source of data 
Complete census/enumeration  
Value applied 
Initial population size, N, is established via administering and 
recording initial complete census of all planting units. For each 
planting unit, the following must be recorded:  
● Unique ID 
● Geo-referenced point of location  
● Year planted 
● Species 
Justification of choice 
of data or description 
of measurement 
methods and 
procedures applied 
See “Source of data” 
 Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the area-based 
quantification approach  
Comments 
Planting units must be clearly defined (e.g., tree, shrub, bamboo 
clump) and identifiable in the field 
 
Data / Parameter 
Carbon Fraction (CF) 
Data unit 
tC/t d.m. 
Description 
Carbon fraction of dry biomass  
Equations 
(7) 
Source of data 
2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories 
Value applied 
0.47 
114
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Justification of choice 
of data or description 
of measurement 
methods and 
procedures applied 
Default value proposed by the IPCC, which is reputable source 
approved under the VCS 
 Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the area-based 
quantification approach  
Comments 
For ex post estimation the indicated default value will be used 
unless transparent and verifiable information can be provided to 
justify a different value. 
 
Data / Parameter 
Wood Density (D) 
Data unit 
t d.m/m
3
 
Description 
Density of the tree species 
Source of data 
CIFOR-ICRAF & IPCC Good Practice Guidance for LULUCF  
Value applied 
Species specific values as detailed in the ex-ante estimations 
spreadsheet 
Justification of choice 
of data or description 
of measurement 
methods and 
procedures applied 
The values applied are from CIFOR-ICRAF a reputable source of 
information specialised in the forestry sector; and the IPCC, which 
is a reputable source approved under the VCS 
 Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the area-based 
quantification approach  
Comments 
For ex post estimation the indicated default value will be used 
unless transparent and verifiable information can be provided to 
justify a different value. 
5.2 Data and Parameters Monitored  
Data / Parameter 
DBH 
Data unit 
cm 
Description 
Diameter at breast height 
Source of data 
Measured data 
Description of 
measurements 
N/A 
115
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
methods and 
procedures to be 
applied 
Frequency of 
monitoring or recording 
Measured at each verification event 
Value applied 
N/A 
Monitoring equipment 
N/A 
QA/QC procedures to 
be applied 
Relevant data should be kept for two years after the end of the 
crediting period 
Purpose of data 
Calculation of baseline and project emissions 
Calculation method 
Calculation of actual net GHG removals by sinks 
Comments 
N/A 
 
Data / Parameter 
H 
Data unit 
cm 
Description 
Tree height 
Source of data 
Measured data 
Description of 
measurements 
methods and 
procedures to be 
applied 
N/A 
Frequency of 
monitoring or recording 
Measured at each verification event 
Value applied 
N/A 
Monitoring equipment 
N/A 
QA/QC procedures to 
be applied 
Relevant data should be kept for two years after the end of the 
crediting period 
Purpose of data 
Calculation of baseline and project emissions 
Calculation method 
Calculation of actual net GHG removals by sinks 
116
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Comments 
N/A 
 
Data / Parameter 
N
TREE
 
Data unit 
cm 
Description 
Forest stand density refers to the number of trees per hectare 
Source of data 
Measured data 
Description of 
measurements 
methods and 
procedures to be 
applied 
N/A 
Frequency of 
monitoring or recording 
Measured at each verification event 
Value applied 
N/A 
Monitoring equipment 
N/A 
QA/QC procedures to 
be applied 
Relevant data should be kept for two years after the end of the 
crediting period 
Purpose of data 
Calculation of baseline and project emissions 
Calculation method 
Calculation of actual net GHG removals by sinks 
Comments 
N/A 
 
Data / Parameter 
Mt 
Data unit 
Percent 
Description 
Mortality through year t 
Equations 
(6) 
Source of data 
Complete re-enumeration, or sampling 
Description of 
measurement methods 
and procedures to be 
applied 
If sampling, planting units must be representatively sampled from 
the census list on which parameter N is based, compiled prior to 
sampling. Stratification (e.g., sub-dividing the census list into 
annual cohorts) may be employed to improve precision but is not 
required. An appropriate representative sample would be a 
stratified systematic sample, within each annual cohort, selecting 
117
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
planting units systematically with a random start from the list of 
unique censused planting units. Planting units are assessed as 
dead where: 
1) Green vascular tissue (e.g., cambium of trees and shrubs) 
and green leaves are absent, or  
2) It is not possible to relocate the planting unit. 
Frequency of 
monitoring/recording 
Every 5 years or more frequently. Sampling for incidence of 
mortality may be conducted simultaneously with sampling planting 
units for biomass measurement. 
Monitoring equipment 
Identify equipment used to monitor the data/parameter including 
type, accuracy class, and serial number of equipment, as 
appropriate. 
QA/QC procedures to 
be applied 
See “Description of measurement methods and procedures to be 
applied” 
Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the census-based 
quantification approach 
Calculation method 
Calculated as a percentage of a sample or census 
Comments 
None 
 
Data / Parameter 
C
WP-woody-AB,t 
Data unit 
t C/ha 
Description 
Average aboveground woody biomass stocks in the project 
scenario in year t (area-based quantification) 
Source of data 
Field measurements 
Description of 
measurement methods 
and procedures to be 
applied 
Aboveground woody biomass will be measured via plot-based 
sampling. 
Stratification may be optionally employed to improve precision. 
Sample design may not be held constant across all monitoring and 
verification events. 
Plot-based sampling approaches may be augmented using double 
or two-phase sampling approaches. These approaches will include: 
1) A complete census of an auxiliary variable (e.g., stocking 
index), and 
2) A sample of direct field-based measurements used to 
determine the relationship (i.e., a ratio or regression) 
between aboveground woody biomass and the auxiliary 
variable. 
All sample measurements will: 
118
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
a)  Be demonstrated to be unbiased and derived from 
representative sampling; 
b) Ensure accuracy through adherence to best practices and 
quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) procedures (to 
be determined by the project proponent and outlined in 
standard operating procedures governing field data 
collection); and 
c) Apply fixed size thresholds on independent variables used 
in biomass estimation (e.g., diameter at breast height, 
diameter at root collar, height), to be maintained through 
the crediting period. 
Aboveground woody biomass of each sampled woody plant (e.g., 
tree, shrub) is estimated using published allometric equations 
applied to one or more measured attributes.  
For project activities involving facilitated natural regeneration or 
with more than two species in a single stand, equation(s) must be 
chosen from the following as available, listed in descending order 
of preference: 
i) Equations specific to the forest type within the same 
ecoregion (defined at the biome level
21
) or Holdridge 
life-zone
22
 as the region in which the project is located, or  
ii) Global equations specific to the forest type.  
Otherwise (e.g., in the case of monoculture plantations), 
equation(s) must be chosen from the following as available, listed 
in descending order of preference: 
iii) Equations specific to the species, genus or family within 
the same ecoregion or Holdridge life-zone as the region in 
which the project is located, or  
iv) Global equations specific to the species, genus or 
family. 
Note that where global allometric equations are used, equations 
must have been developed from or validated with datasets 
including direct measurements collected via destructive sampling 
from within the same ecoregion or Holdridge life-zone as that in 
which the project is located.  
Attributes (e.g., diameter at breast height, total height) 
incorporated as independent variables in allometric equations 
must be directly measured in the field applying established best 
practices, such as those found in:  
Kershaw Jr, J. A., Ducey, M. J., Beers, T. W., & Husch, B. (2016). Forest 
mensuration. John Wiley & Sons.  
Avery, T. E., & Burkhart, H. E. (2015). Forest measurements. 
Waveland Press.  
22
 http://iridl.ldeo.columbia.edu/SOURCES/.ECOSYSTEMS/.Holdridge/present+.life-zone/downloadsGeoTiff.html  
21
 https://www.worldwildlife.org/publications/terrestrial-ecoregions-of-the-world  
119
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Measurement protocols must be detailed in standard operating 
procedures. Parameter tables for all attributes (e.g., diameter at 
breast height, total height) incorporated as independent variables 
in allometric equations must be included in the project description 
under “Data and Parameters Monitored.” 
Frequency of 
monitoring/recording 
Every 5 years or more frequently. 
Monitoring equipment 
Forestry measuring caliper 
Hypsometer 
Measuring tape 
Clinometer 
QA/QC procedures to 
be applied 
Ten per cent (10%) of the sampling plots will be reenumerated in 
order to perform the QA/QC processes as guided by the standard 
operating procedures governing field data collection. 
Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the area-based 
quantification approach 
Calculation method 
Calculated as the average of sample measurements 
Comments 
Tool VT0005 does not apply. 
 
Data / Parameter 
B
WP-woody-AB,pu,t 
Data unit 
t d.m. 
Description 
Estimated biomass stock in aboveground woody biomass in 
sampled planting unit pu in the project scenario in year t 
(census-based quantification) 
Source of data 
Field measurements 
Description of 
measurement methods 
and procedures to be 
applied 
Aboveground woody biomass is measured via representative 
sampling from N planting units. Stratification (e.g., sub-dividing the 
census list into annual cohorts) may be employed to improve 
precision but is not required. An appropriate representative sample 
would be a stratified systematic sample within each annual cohort, 
selecting planting units systematically with a random start from 
the list of unique censused planting units. Sample design need not 
be held constant across all monitoring and verification events.  
All sample measurements must:  
1) Be demonstrated to be unbiased and derived from 
representative sampling;  
2) Ensure accuracy through adherence to best practices and 
quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) procedures (to 
be determined by the project proponent and outlined in 
120
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
standard operating procedures governing field data 
collection); and 
3) Apply fixed size thresholds on independent variables used 
in biomass estimation (e.g., diameter at breast height, 
diameter at root collar, height), to be maintained through 
the crediting period.  
Aboveground woody biomass of each sampled woody plant (e.g., 
tree, shrub) is estimated using published allometric equations 
applied to one or more measured attributes. 
Equation(s) must be chosen from the following as available, listed 
in descending order of preference: 
a) Equations specific to the species, genus or family within 
the same ecoregion or Holdridge life-zone as the region in 
which the project is located, or 
b) Global equations specific to the species, genus or family.  
Note where global allometric equations are used, equations must 
have been developed from, or validated with, datasets including 
direct measurements collected via destructive sampling from 
within the same ecoregion or Holdridge life-zone as that in which 
the project is located. Attributes (e.g., diameter at breast height, 
total height) incorporated as independent variables in allometric 
equations must be directly measured in the field applying 
established best practices, such as those found in:  
Kershaw Jr, J. A., Ducey, M. J., Beers, T. W., & Husch, B. (2016). Forest 
measurement. John Wiley & Sons.  
Avery, T. E., & Burkhart, H. E. (2015). Forest measurements. 
Waveland Press.  
Measurement protocols must be detailed in standard operating 
procedures. Parameter tables for all attributes (e.g., diameter at 
breast height, total height) incorporated as independent variables 
in allometric equations must be included in the project description 
under “Data and Parameters Monitored.” 
Frequency of 
monitoring/recording 
Every 5 years or more frequently. 
Monitoring equipment 
Forestry measuring caliper 
Hypsometer 
Measuring tape 
QA/QC procedures to 
be applied 
Ten per cent (10%) of the sampling plots will be reenumarated in 
order to perform the QA/QC processes as guided by the standard 
operating procedures governing field data collection. 
Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the census-based 
quantification approach 
Calculation method 
Calculated as the average of sample measurements 
121
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Comments 
Note that where a sampled live planting unit is less than the 
predetermined size (e.g., minimum diameter at breast height) 
threshold, it is assigned a value of zero and included in the sample 
dataset. 
 
Data / Parameter 
U
p, t  
Data unit 
Percent 
Description 
Percentage uncertainty (expressed as 90 percent confidence 
interval as a percentage of the mean) in carbon stock estimate of 
pool p in the project scenario in year t 
Source of data 
Calculations from sampled field measurements 
Description of 
measurement methods 
and procedures to be 
applied 
Uncertainty in pools derived from field measurements with 90 
percent confidence interval calculated as the standard error of the 
averaged plot measurement multiplied by the t value for the 90 
percent confidence level  
Where double or two-phase sampling approaches are employed 
for aboveground woody biomass, parameter U
p=woody,t 
is 
represented by error in the relationship (ratio or regression) 
between the auxiliary variable and woody biomass, referencing the 
90 percent confidence interval of the ratio or 1.645 times the root 
mean squared error of the regression. Sample error in the auxiliary 
variable is not treated, because it must be subject to a complete 
census (see parameter table for C
WP-woody-AB,t 
above).  
Where double or two-phase sampling approaches are employed 
for non-woody biomass and/or litter (i.e., where subsampling is 
employed to estimate the dry-to-green weight ratio that is then 
applied to a sample estimate of green weight (see parameter 
tables for D
MWP-herb,t
 and D
MWPLI,t
), parameters U
p=non-woody,t
 and U
p=litter,t 
are calculated by propagating sample error of the green weight 
estimate and sample error of the estimate of dry-to-green weight 
ratio. 
Frequency of 
monitoring/recording 
Every 5 years or more frequently. 
QA/QC procedures to 
be applied 
See “Description of measurement methods and procedures to be 
applied” 
Purpose of data 
Calculation of project emissions using the census-based and/or 
areabased quantification approaches 
Calculation method 
Confidence interval calculated by applying unbiased estimators 
appropriate to sample design. For examples, see Cochran, W.G. 
(1977). Sampling techniques. John Wiley & Sons. 
122
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Comments 
For the area-based quantification approach, pools p include woody 
biomass, non-woody biomass, dead wood, litter and SOC.  
For the census-based quantification approach, pools p include 
woody biomass only.  
 
5.3 Monitoring Plan 
5.3.1 Organizational Structure, Responsibilities, and Competencies 
The monitoring structure for the project is designed to ensure effective oversight and seamless 
coordination across roles, combining expertise in technical forestry operations, carbon 
accounting, community engagement, and biodiversity management.  The project is implemented 
through a two-tier organisational arrangement comprising (i) Thryve.Earth as Project Proponent 
and Developer, responsible for overall project governance, design, and carbon programme 
compliance, and (ii) an Implementing Partner Project Team, responsible for field execution and 
day-to-day delivery in the project area.  
Within Thryve.Earth, responsibilities are organised across several functional workstreams. A 
Technical Operations (Nature, Carbon and GIS) function provides technical direction on project 
methodology application, GIS and remote-sensing workflows, and carbon-related technical 
inputs, ensuring consistency between field implementation and the monitoring and reporting 
requirements. A dedicated Science and R&D function supports the project with scientific quality 
assurance, including design refinement, technical research inputs, and continuous improvement 
of monitoring approaches. Thryve.Earth also maintains a Local Project Operations and 
Management function to coordinate implementation planning, scheduling, internal controls, 
documentation, and on-ground operational management, including oversight of field 
coordination, contractor interfaces, and operational readiness. Additionally the Livelihoods, 
Ecology and Biodiversity function provides guidance on social safeguards, co-benefit 
programming, and biodiversity considerations, supporting integration of community priorities 
into project activities and monitoring. 
The Implementing Partner Project Team is structured into specialised sub-teams to deliver fie ld 
operations. Nursery Management oversees seedling production/procurement, nursery 
operations and quality control to meet planting schedules and species specifications, while 
Project Implementation and Monitoring carries out site preparation, planting, maintenance, 
mortality replacement and routine monitoring in line with the project design and SOPs. A 
dedicated Data Collection function manages systematic field data and documentation (including 
socioeconomic and land/farm-level information) to ensure complete and reliable records for 
monitoring, reporting and verification, aligned with field milestones. The team is further 
supported by Livelihoods and Value Chains to implement community-facing livelihood activities, 
123
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
and Central Administration and Support to provide HR, payroll/accounting, logistics and office 
administration for consistent field delivery. 
Both Thryve.Earth and the Implementing Partner maintain Core Project Management Teams to 
ensure integrated delivery. These teams provide the primary coordination mechanism for work 
planning, issue escalation, performance tracking, and alignment across nursery, field 
implementation, data collection, and stakeholder engagement. Strategic direction and senior 
oversight are provided through a Project Steering Committee, which reviews progress, 
addresses key risks, and supports timely decision-making on critical matters (including resource 
allocation, schedule changes, and compliance actions) to ensure the project remains aligned 
with the approved project design and applicable programme requirements 
The roles and responsibilities are as follows: 
● Project Steering Committee (Thryve.Earth & Implementation Partner): Strategic 
oversight, stakeholder engagement, risk mitigation, financing, and governance. 
● NbS Project Manager (Thryve.Earth): End-to-end project coordination and monitoring 
alignment with VCS VM0047 and national frameworks. 
● MEL Manager (Implementation Partner): Oversees monitoring, evaluation, learning, and 
coordinates MRV data collection. 
● GIS/Remote Sensing Team (Thryve.Earth): Leads data acquisition, control plot 
matching, Stocking Index regression analysis. 
● Community Organizers & Cluster Coordinators (Implementation Partner): Conduct 
ground-level data collection, plantation tracking, and community coordination. 
● Nursery and Field Ops Controllers (Implementation Partner): Ensure planting quality, 
sapling readiness, and field-level measurements.. 
124
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Figure 17. Organizational Chart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
125
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
5.3.2 Activity Control and Data Recording 
All activities are monitored through a digital MRV system integrated with field-level survey tools 
(KoboToolbox/GPS) and verified using QA/QC protocols. All field, GIS, and lab data are stored in 
secure cloud repositories (Google Drive and Dropbox), with version control and restricted access 
for sensitive certification documents. 
All collected data is tagged by plot ID, geo-coordinates, farmer ID, and timestamp. The MEL 
Manager and Central Data Reporting Analyst validate data before it is finalized for reporting. 
5.3.3 GHG Emission Monitoring and Sampling Strategy 
GHG removals are monitored using an area-based approach as prescribed by VM0047. This 
methodology ensures that sampled plots reflect the project's ecological diversity and that 
measurements are statistically robust. 
The strategy involves: 
● Stratified Random Sampling: Monitoring strata for area-based approach will reflect the 
strata defined in the project planting design document, which will take into account the 
topography, number of existing trees, composition of species planted, and year of initial 
planting and a stratified random sampling will be employed. 
● Measurement protocol: 
○ DBH measured at 1.3 m with calipers and calibrated measuring tape 
○ Height measured with hypsometers or clinometers 
 
Figure 15: Measurement of DBH in different conditions
23
 
23
 
Source: Adapted from Köhl M, Magnussen S, Marchetti M (2006) Sampling methods, remote sensing and GIS multiresource 
forest inventory, Tropical forestry. Springer, Berlin/London; Zingg A (1988) Schweizerisches Landesforstinventar: Anleitung f€ 
ur die Erstaufnahme 1982–1986.Berichte, Birmensdorf 
126
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Aboveground biomass is calculated using species-specific allometric models; belowground 
biomass is estimated using IPCC root-to-shoot ratios. While litter, deadwood, and SOC are 
considered de minimis and excluded initially, their future inclusion is planned. 
Monitoring is supported by: 
● SOPs customized for North Sulawesi’s ecology 
● Seasonal training of field teams 
● Oversight from Thryve.Earth’s technical team and the Implementation partner 
This protocol ensures the precision and accuracy required for long-term carbon accounting. 
5.3.4 Performance Benchmark and Dynamic Baseline 
To establish a credible baseline and demonstrate additionality, the project utilizes a dynamic 
performance benchmark (PB) derived from the Stocking Index (SI). This approach, aligned with 
VM0047, replaces static benchmarks with continuously updated control plots. The baseline is 
determined by comparing vegetation trends in project plots with those from matched control 
plots selected from a donor pool area within 100 km of the project site.  
The Stocking Index is derived using NDFI, which is estimated through remote sensing and 
GIS-based analysis using Landsat 8 imagery datasets, as described below. 
NDFI is calculated using the following formulation
24
: 
NDFI = (GV_shade − (NPV + Soil)) / (GV_shade + (NPV + Soil)) 
Where: 
● GV_shade (Shade-normalised Green Vegetation fraction):  
GV_shade represents the proportion of live, photosynthetically active forest canopy after 
correcting for illumination and shadow effects. Its role in the formula is to capture the true 
extent of intact forest cover. It is calculated as: 
GV_shade = GV / (1 − Shade),  
where GV is the green vegetation fraction derived from spectral unmixing and Shade 
represents the fractional contribution of illumination and canopy shadow. This term 
represents the true proportion of live forest canopy after correcting for shading effects. 
● NPV (Non-Photosynthetic Vegetation fraction):  
24
 
Morel, A. C., Fisher, J. B., & Malhi, Y. 2012. Evaluating the potential to monitor aboveground 
biomass in forest and oil palm in Sabah, Malaysia, for 20002008 with Landsat ETM and 
ALOSPALSAR. International Journal of Remote Sensing, 3311, 36143639.
 
 
 
127
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
NPV is derived directly from spectral unmixing; it represents the fractional cover of dead 
wood, litter, and dry biomass within a pixel. In the formula, it captures early and subtle 
degradation signals associated with forest disturbance. 
● Soil (Soil fraction):  
It is also derived from spectral unmixing. It represents the fractional cover of exposed 
mineral surfaces within a pixel. Its role in the formula is to account for canopy opening and 
more advanced stages of forest disturbance. 
The numerator expresses the contrast between intact forest canopy and degradation-related 
components, while the denominator normalises the index, allowing consistent comparison 
across space and time. 
A K-nearest neighbor (KNN) algorithm using Euclidean distance metrics is employed to pair each 
project plot with five comparable control plots, and weights are assigned inversely to their 
distance. Match quality between the population of project plots and the population of control 
plots has been  evaluated for each covariate by calculating standard difference of means (SDM). 
The performance benchmark is calculated at each monitoring interval. The slopes (ΔSI) 
represent the vegetative cover change rate and are used to test whether the project signific antly 
exceeds natural regeneration trends. A Z-test will be conducted, at each monitoring interval, to 
assess the statistical significant difference between ΔSI_project and ΔSI_control. Based on the 
outcome of the Z-test, the performance benchmark (PB) will be determined accordingly. Where 
the absolute value of the Z-statistic is less than 1.96, indicating no statistically signific ant 
difference between the rates of change in stocking index for project and control plots, the PB 
will be set equal to 1. Where the absolute value of the Z-statistic is greater than or equal to 1.96, 
indicating a statistically significant difference, the PB will be calculated as the ratio of the 
average annual increase in stocking index of control plots to that of project plots, as given by the 
following equation: 
 
Where: 
PB  = performance benchmark for the monitoring interval ending at year t (dimensionless); 
ΔSIcontrol,t = average annual increase in stocking index (SI) in control plots through year t; 
ΔSIwp,t = average annual increase in stocking index (SI) in project plots through year t 
t =  the number of years elapsed since the project start date. 
If the slope of the control plots (ΔSIcontrol,t) is insignificant (P > 0.05) or negative, it will be set to 
zero for the purpose of calculating the performance benchmark.     
128
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
This rigorous benchmarking ensures that credited GHG removals are additional, measurable, 
and verifiable while capturing shifts in land cover over time and enabling more accurate 
monitoring of project impacts. 
To support the implementation of the dynamic performance benchmark and ensure consistency 
with VM0047 monitoring requirements, a structured schedule and procedure will be followed 
for the acquisition, processing, and management of remote sensing data. The Stocking Index will 
be derived on a periodic basis, that is, at each monitoring interval, which for this project 
corresponds to annual monitoring. Landsat 8 imagery will be sourced for the same seasonal 
window in each monitoring year to minimize phenological and illumination-related variability and 
ensure temporal comparability across monitoring intervals. All imagery will be screened for 
quality, including cloud cover and sensor artefacts, prior to use. 
In accordance with VM0047 Section 9.3, a dedicated project database will be maintained to 
store and manage all outputs generated through the monitoring process. This database will 
include a full description of the Stocking Index and its derivation methodology, unique identifiers 
and spatial attributes for all project and matched control plots, associated plot weights, and 
complete time series of Stocking Index values from t = 0 through each monitoring year. In 
addition, all remote sensing datasets used, along with acquisition dates, processing metadata, 
and the complete calculation workflow from Stocking Index derivation to performance 
benchmark estimation, will be systematically archived to enable transparent verification, 
traceability, and consistent recalculation across monitoring periods. 
5.3.5 Quality Assurance and Quality Control (QA/QC) 
The project has implemented a rigorous QA/QC system aligned with the Verifie d Carbon 
Standard (VCS) v4.7 and VM0047 methodology. This system ensures that all data collected in 
the field or generated remotely is reliable, traceable, and audit-ready. 
Key features of the QA/QC approach include: 
● Measurement thresholds to flag errors and initiate remeasurement: 
○ ≤ 5% deviation in DBH (Diameter at Breast Height) 
○ ≤ 5% deviation in total tree height 
● Random audits of ≥10% of permanent sampling plots (PSPs) annually 
● Pre-monitoring instrument calibration (calipers, hypsometers, clinometers, GPS units) 
● Tablet-based digital logging with geo-tagging, photograph and time-stamping 
● Three-level verification: 
○ Data validated by field coordinators 
○ The Central Data Reporting Analysts team conducts consistency reviews 
○ The MEL Manager & NBS Project Manager oversees the final validation 
129
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
GIS shapefiles and spatial data undergo version control and are updated with each planting 
phase. Any discrepancies in data are resolved within five business days using documented 
correction protocols. This system ensures alignment with field realities and supports continuous 
improvement. As a result, the QA/QC framework upholds scientific integrity, safeguards 
credibility, and ensures carbon credit claims are verifiable. 
5.3.6 Data Storage and Documentation 
All North Sulawesi ARR project monitoring data is securely stored in a dual-platform digital 
archiving system, comprising Google Drive and Thryve.Earth platform. These platforms are 
structured with controlled access permissions and version-tracking protocols, ensuring both 
collaboration and data integrity. 
Field data, including plot measurements, GPS coordinates, DBH and height logs, and 
photographic evidence, are collected using mobile survey tools and uploaded to project-specific 
cloud folders tagged with metadata such as plot ID, collection date, and field technician ID. 
Primary data is logged on-site and cross-validated by supervisors before being transferred to 
the master database managed by Thryve's central data team. 
The storage protocol mandates categorizing documents into raw data, cleaned data, and final 
validated records. Thryve.Earth maintains non-editable folders on the platform that will serve as 
the official archive for certification-relevant documents, including monitoring reports, 
calculation sheets, carbon accounting tools, and audit-ready materials.  
All files are backed up periodically and retained for a minimum of 3 years following the 
conclusion of the final crediting period, consistent with Verra’s requirements. Spatial data (e.g., 
KML, shapefiles, raster imagery) are stored in GIS-compatible formats and linked with fie ld data 
for cross-reference. Hard copies of field logs are digitized and uploaded to ensure redundancy. 
This systematic approach to documentation not only guarantees traceability and transparency 
but also facilitates internal reviews, third-party audits, and stakeholder reporting. 
5.3.7 Handling Non-Conformances 
The project establishes a formalized incident management system to detect, report, and 
resolve non-conformances in alignment with VCS validation and verification requirements. A 
non-conformance may include any deviation from validated methodologies, procedural lapses in 
field measurements, data inconsistencies, or external disruptions (e.g., fire damage to sample 
plots). 
When a non-conformance is detected, the following steps are taken: 
● Initial detection: through routine QA/QC checks, audits, or feedback from field or 
verification team 
130
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
● Documentation: each issue is logged with: 
○ Incident description 
○ Location and time 
○ Team involved 
○ Type of non-conformance (e.g., protocol deviation, missing data) 
● Root cause analysis: conducted by the MEL Manager & Thryve.Earth technical team  in 
consultation with relevant teams 
● Corrective actions: 
○ Full re-measurement or exclusion of affected plots 
○ Staff retraining if procedural 
○ System or tool updates if technical 
● Validation and closure: resolution must be verified by third party 
All resolutions are recorded in the Monitoring Report submitted to Verra and reviewed at each 
verification event. If systemic issues are identified, upstream processes (e.g., SOPs, training 
materials) are revised. This structure ensures timely mitigation, reduces reputational and 
reporting risk, and promotes a culture of transparency and accountability across the project. 
5.3.8 Link to Adaptive Management 
The Monitoring Plan is closely integrated with the project’s Adaptive Management Framework, 
enabling a dynamic feedback loop that ensures resilience and continuous improvement over the 
40-year lifespan. Monitoring results—whether ecological (e.g., survival rates, biomass trends) or 
operational (e.g., planting delays, fire outbreaks)—are continuously evaluated to inform 
decision-making. If key performance indicators such as sapling survival drop below 95%, the 
adaptive system triggers corrective measures, including species substitution, enhanced nursery 
protocols, or targeted replanting. Similarly, early detection of fire-prone conditions through 
satellite data or field observations can lead to adjustments in fire buffer zones or the 
deployment of biological firebreaks. 
This adaptive approach is also informed by long-term trends in soil organic carbon, pest 
outbreaks, and climate events. For instance, if extreme drought conditions are detected, 
irrigation support or biochar enrichment may be prioritized. All adaptive interventions are 
recorded in a centralized project log that is reviewed biannually during internal assessments. The 
coordination between Thryve.Earth’s technical team and Masarang’s field implementers ensures 
that lessons learned from monitoring are translated into field-level adjustments without delay. 
This system of iterative learning supports the long-term permanence of carbon stocks, sustains 
biodiversity benefits, and reinforces community ownership of the restoration process. 
Ultimately, adaptive management strengthens ecological outcomes and operational readiness 
across the project lifecycle. 
131
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
This ensures the system is responsive, iterative, and resilient over the project’s lifespan. 
5.3.9 Detailed Staged Monitoring Plan 
The monitoring plan for the project includes detailed parameters and indicators at various 
stages: Farmer Onboarding, Preplantation, Plantation, Post-plantation, Nursery Management, 
etc.  
Farmer onboarding stage: 
Farmer Onboarding, where three key parameters are monitored to ensure successful 
participation. Farmer Identification is conducted through surveys, awareness programs, and 
outreach efforts, verifying eligibility based on predefined selection criteria, monitored one time 
per farmer. 
Land Ownership Verification involves reviewing farmer data and government documents to 
confirm parcel survey numbers and land area, also a one-time process. Lastly, Consent and 
Training are tracked using signed agreements and attendance records, ensuring farmers 
consent to participate and attend required training sessions. 
Table 18. Farmer onboarding parameters and indicators for monitoring 
Parameter Method of monitoring Indicators 
Farmer identification Survey, Awareness programs, Program 
Outreach 
Eligibility as per farmer selection 
criteria 
Land ownership 
verification 
Farmer data, government documents Parcel survey number, total area (in 
hectares) 
Consent and training Records of signed agreements Participation consent, training 
attendance 
Pre-planting stage: 
The pre-planting stage is critical for ensuring the success of the project and includes several key 
parameters. Land identification involves using farmer data and GPS/KML mapping to associate 
each plot with a unique farmer ID and geospatial record. Species selection relies on pre-planting 
records to document local and scientific names of selected species along with sapling sources. 
Planting design is informed by field surveys and pre-planting records, detailing the number of 
plants, spacing configurations (e.g., 3m x 3m), and plot size. Site preparation includes soil 
testing, land clearing, and marking planting rows to ensure optimal conditions for planting and 
sapling growth.  
Table 19. Pre-planting parameters and indicators for monitoring 
Parameter Method of monitoring Indicators 
132
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Land identification Farmer data, GPS/KML mapping Farmer ID, plot ID, linked KML file 
Species selection Pre-Planting records Species (local and scientific names), sapling 
source 
Planting design Field surveys, pre-planting 
records 
Number of plants, spacing (e.g., 3m x 3m), 
plot size 
Site preparation Hectarage covered  No. of pits dug, Soil testing, etc.  
Plantation stage: 
During the plantation stage, several critical parameters are monitored to ensure the success of 
the plantation process. Plantation Details are tracked using plantation records (Plantation 
Journals), documenting the date of plantation, plot ID, species planted, and the method used, 
monitored daily during plantation activities. Sapling quality is assessed through field 
observations, focusing on indicators such as sapling health, disease-free status, and the 
presence of appropriate root systems, reviewed weekly.  
Labour and resource tracking is conducted using plantation records, capturing inputs like 
person-days of work, biochar, fertilizers, and water usage, also monitored weekly. 
Table 20. Planting parameters and indicators for monitoring 
Parameter 
Method of 
monitoring Indicators 
Reporting 
frequency 
Plantation details Plantation journal Date of plantation, plot ID, 
species, method used 
Daily during 
plantation 
Sapling quality 
(nursery management) 
Field observations Sapling health, disease-free, 
appropriate root systems 
Monthly 
Labor and resource 
tracking 
Plantation journal Person-days of work, inputs 
(biochar, fertilizers, water) 
Monthly 
 
Post-plantation: 
The post-plantation stage focuses on monitoring and maintaining the health and success of the 
plantation through critical parameters. The survival rate of planted species is a key focus, 
assessed quarterly through field surveys to determine the percentage of surviving saplings 
compared to initial planting. This data helps evaluate planting success and identify areas 
requiring replanting or additional care. Other parameters include monitoring above-ground and 
below-ground biomass for carbon stock estimation, soil organic carbon (SOC) to track 
improvements in soil health, and canopy cover using GIS analysis to assess overall vegetation 
growth. These efforts ensure the plantation's ecological sustainability and alignment with 
project objectives. 
133
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Table 21. Post-planting parameters and indicators for monitoring 
Parameter to monitor Method of monitoring Indicators Frequency 
Above-ground biomass Field surveys, tree 
measurements, and 
allometric equations 
Diameter at Breast Height 
(DBH), tree height, 
species-specific allometric 
equations 
Annual 
Below-ground biomass Estimation using 
root-to-shoot ratios 
Root biomass estimates 
derived from 
above-ground biomass 
Annual 
Soil Organic Carbon 
(SOC) 
Soil sampling and 
laboratory analysis 
SOC concentration (g/kg), 
bulk density, and carbon 
stock per unit area 
Every 3 years 
Dead Organic Matter 
(DOM) 
Field surveys and 
measurements 
Deadwood volume, litter 
mass 
Annual 
Canopy cover Remote sensing and GIS 
analysis 
Percentage canopy cover, 
NDVI (Normalized 
Difference Vegetation 
Index) 
Annual 
Survival rate of planted 
species 
Field surveys and sampling Percentage of surviving 
saplings relative to initial 
planting 
Quarterly for 1-3 
years 
Greenhouse gas 
emissions 
Field measurements, 
secondary data, and 
estimates 
CO
2
, CH
4
, and N
2
O 
emissions from project 
activities (e.g., fertilizer 
use, irrigation, transport) 
Annual 
Land-use changes Remote sensing, GIS, and 
ground-truthing 
Changes in land use 
classification within 
project boundaries 
Annual 
Socioeconomic 
indicators 
Surveys, interviews, and 
stakeholder consultations 
Number of jobs created, 
income levels, local 
community participation 
Annual 
Biodiversity indicators Field surveys, species 
inventories 
Presence of native 
species, species richness 
Every 2-3 years 
Hydrological indicators Water quality and quantity 
assessments 
Groundwater levels, 
streamflow patterns, 
sediment loads 
Every 3-5 years 
134
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Parameter to monitor Method of monitoring Indicators Frequency 
Leakage emissions Satellite imagery, field 
checks 
Evidence of activity 
displacement outside the 
project boundary 
Annual 
The post-planting phase and harvesting schedule are closely integrated to achieve both 
ecological restoration and sustainable economic benefits. Following the initial planting of diverse 
species, the management focuses on nurturing young plants, ensuring their survival, and 
promoting healthy growth through ongoing monitoring and regenerative practices. The 
harvesting schedule complements these efforts by considering the varying growth cycles and 
product yields of the planted species, allowing for immediate returns from medium-term 
harvests from fruit crops, and long-term yields from timber. This integrated approach ensures a 
continuous flow of benefits while fostering a resilient and restored ecosystem. The following 
table outlines the planned harvesting and production life cycles for various species involved in 
the project. It details the species list, their primary uses (timber, nitrogen fix ation (NF), 
non-timber forest products (NTFP), or commercial crops), the number of saplings planted per 
hectare, and their respective harvesting or production life cycles in years. 
Table 22. Harvesting schedule 
No Species list Use 
Saplings per 
hectare 
Tree harvesting or 
production life cycle 
1 
Anthocephalus 
macrophyllus 
Timber tree 96 15 
2 Swietenia mahagoni Timber tree 96 20 
3 Arenga pinnata Commercial crop 320 20 
4 Carica papaya Fruits Commercial crop 32 8 
5 Musa acuminata Fruits Commercial crop 32 10 
6 Tectonia grandis Commercial crop 140 20 
7 Magnolia champaca Timber tree 96 20 
5.3.10 Digital-MRV Integration 
The integration of digital MRV (Monitoring, Reporting, and Verific ation) across the project's 
stages will ensure enhanced accuracy, scalability, and transparency. In the Farmer Onboarding 
stage, mobile apps and GPS tools digitize farmer data and map land plots. During the 
Pre-Planting stage, GIS systems optimize land identification and planting designs. The 
Plantation stage employs active tracking of plantation progress through drone imageries and 
online tools for sapling monitoring, while the Post-Plantation stages use high-resolution satellite 
/drone data in combination with RS-GIS tools for biomass, and canopy assessments. Unified 
135
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
MRV platforms streamline carbon accounting, socioeconomic tracking, leakage detection, and 
reporting, ensuring efficient project management. 
Table 23. DMRV-parameter and indicators for monitoring 
Stage Digital tools Integration approach 
Farmer Onboarding Mobile apps, GPS-based 
mapping 
Collect farmer data, GPS map land plots, and 
digitize consent agreements in a centralized 
database. 
Pre-planting GIS platforms, KML file 
generation tools 
Digitize land identification, species selection, and 
planting designs optimized with climatic and soil 
data. 
Plantation Mobile apps,  Record plantation details, track saplings 
Post-plantation Remote sensing, 
Drone/High Resolution 
Imageries 
Monitor biomass, canopy cover, soil moisture, 
SOC, and hydrology using satellite imagery, 
drones, and sensors. 
Socioeconomic 
monitoring 
Survey apps, community 
engagement platforms 
Track training attendance, income generation, and 
community feedback via mobile surveys and 
dashboards. 
GHG and carbon 
accounting 
Carbon accounting 
platforms 
Automate carbon sequestration and emissions 
estimation, ensuring compliance with carbon 
market standards. 
Leakage monitoring Satellite imagery Monitor land-use changes outside project 
boundaries in real time and integrate results into 
reporting tools. 
Reporting and verification Cloud-based MRV 
platforms 
Consolidate all monitoring data into a unified 
digital system for seamless reporting to 
certification bodies. 
 
5.3.11 Monitoring social and community benefits and ecological impact plan 
The monitoring of social and community benefits is based on the theory of change and causal 
model approach as described in the following report, “Manual for social impact assessment of 
land-based carbon projects”
25
.  
The essence of this approach is that the project design team and the project stakeholders 
develop a hypothesis of how the project aims to achieve its intended goals and objectives, 
25
 https://pdf.usaid.gov/pdf_docs/PNADS891.pdf 
136
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
including its social objectives. This becomes the project’s theory of how and why change will 
happen. To be convincing it needs to trace how the (short-term) project activities and outputs 
will cause (short to mid-term) social outcomes and thence how these will lead in turn to 
(longer-term) social impacts. The activities and outputs can be considered as the means of 
achieving the project ends – positive social outcomes and impacts – and a causal chain can be 
built up. 
The monitoring and evaluation of the socio-economic benefits and ecological impact will include 
the following set of activities and programs: 
● Establish clear social goals and indicators 
● Incorporate participatory monitoring including community engagement, participatory 
data collection, and inclusive monitoring 
● Monitoring social impacts including tracking livelihood and income benefit s, access to 
resources and services, empowerment, and gender equity 
● environmental and social safeguards including land tenure and rights and Free, Prior, and 
Informed Consent (FPIC) 
● Regular surveys and assessments alongside the use of technology for data collection 
with reporting and feedback loops 
● Capacity building and training 
The monitoring plan for the project includes detailed parameters and indicators to assess both 
social and ecological impacts. Social benefits are evaluated through annual and biannual 
tracking of income enhancement, employment generation, and community engagement, with a 
focus on equitable benefit-sharing and gender equity. Conflict resolution and social cohesion are 
reviewed quarterly. 
Ecological impacts are assessed annually through biodiversity restoration metrics, carbon 
sequestration, soil health, and habitat restoration, while water resource management and 
climate resilience indicators are monitored biannually. This robust plan ensures adaptive 
management and long-term sustainability of project outcomes. This will be further bolstered by 
applying the High Conservation Value approach that is already inherently embedded into the 
project's social and ecological impact monitoring and evaluation activities and will be applied 
appropriately.   
Table 24. Social and ecological impact parameters and indicators for monitoring 
Aspect Parameters Indicators 
Frequency of 
Monitoring 
Social Benefits Income 
enhancement 
Average annual income of participating 
farmers (before and after intervention). 
Annual 
137
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Aspect Parameters Indicators 
Frequency of 
Monitoring 
Employment 
generation 
Number of jobs created through nursery 
management, planting, and maintenance. 
Annual 
Community 
engagement 
Number of farmer cooperatives formed; 
participation rates in training programs. 
Biennial 
Capacity building Number of training sessions conducted and 
farmers trained in agroforestry practices. 
Biennial 
Gender equity Percentage of women participating in project 
activities or holding leadership roles. 
Annual 
Livelihood 
diversification 
A number of farmers are adopting diversified 
income streams (e.g., NTFPs, timber). 
Biennial 
Community 
Benefits 
Equitable 
benefit-sharing 
The proportion of farmers receiving equitable 
financial and non-financial benefits. 
Annual 
Conflict resolution 
mechanisms 
Number of grievances logged and resolved 
through project grievance mechanisms. 
Biennial 
Social cohesion Farmer perceptions of cooperation and trust 
within cooperatives or community groups. 
Annual 
Ecological 
Impact 
Biodiversity 
improvement 
Number of native tree species planted; 
species richness in project areas. 
Annual 
Soil health Organic carbon content, nutrient levels, and 
water retention capacity of soils. 
Annual 
Carbon 
sequestration 
Annual and cumulative CO2e sequestered, 
verified through MRV systems. 
Annual 
Water resource 
management 
Reduction in water usage; number of drip 
irrigation systems installed. 
Annual 
Habitat restoration Area of degraded land restored; presence of 
key indicator species (flora and fauna). 
Annual 
Climate resilience Reduction in vulnerability to drought; 
percentage of farmers reporting improved 
resilience. 
Biennial 
138
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
139
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.3 
APPENDIX 1: COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE INFORMATION 
Use the table below to describe the commercially sensitive information included in the project 
description to be excluded in the public version.   
Table 25. Commercially sensitive information 
Section Information Justification 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
140
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
APPENDIX 2: STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 
Table 26. The meeting details of stakeholder consultation
 
 
No Date 
Economic/ Business 
Activity 
Stakeholders 
Number of Attendees 
M F Total 
1 25-Nov-24 
Consultation: 
Discussion and site visit 
Masarang, 
Thryve.Earth, 
Village Head, 
Local Community 
7 3 10 
2 26-Nov-24 
Consultation: 
Discussion 
Masarang, 
Representative of 
local community, 
Thryve.Earth 
11 1 12 
3 
3-5-Des- 
2024 
Consultation: 
Participatory Surveys 
Local Community, 
ITM university. 20 
facilitators and 
enumerators (12 
male 8 female) 
and 35 
community 
respondents (22 
male and 13 
female). 
34 21 55 
4 
18-Dec- 
2024 
Consultation: 
Discussion 
20 participants 
between 
Masarang, 
Thryve.Earth, 
Indonesia’s 
Ministry of 
Forestry and staff 
 18  2  20 
5 
23-May- 
2025 
Consultation: 
Discussion 
Masarang, 
Makalisung 
Village Head 
 3 2 5  
6 
03-June- 
2025 
Consultation: 
Discussion and site visit 
Masarang, 
Makalisung 
Villagers. Total 
attendees of 26 
participants with 
6 facilitators (5 
male 1 female). 
Gender 
breakdown of 
attendees 
(excluding 
   26  
141
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
No Date 
Economic/ Business 
Activity 
Stakeholders 
Number of Attendees 
M F Total 
facilitators) is 
currently being 
verified. 
7 
17-June- 
2025 
Consultation: 
Discussion 
Masarang,  
Kayuwatu Village 
Head 
6   1  7 
8 
02-July- 
2025 
Consultation: 
Discussion 
Masarang,  
Kayuwatu 
Villagers. Total 
attendees of 16 
participants. 
Gender 
breakdown of 
attendees is 
currently being 
verified. 
     16 
9 
10-July- 
2025 
Consultation: 
Discussion 
Masarang,  
Mahembang 
Village Head 
 3  1  4 
10 
18-July- 
2025 
Consultation: 
Discussion 
Masarang,  
Mahembang 
Villagers. Total 
attendees of 24 
participants. 
Gender 
breakdown of 
attendees is 
currently being 
verified. 
     24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
142
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
APPENDIX 3: STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION  
 
 Figure 16: Stakeholder Consultation and Site Visit, on 25 November 2024 
143
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 Figure 17: Stakeholder Consultation with Village Head, on 26 November 2024 
144
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 Figure 18: Participatory Surveys with Villagers, on 3 - 5 December 2024 
145
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 Figure 19: Stakeholder Consultation with Ministry of Forestry, on 18 December 2024 
 
 Figure 20: Stakeholder Resolution with Makalisung Village Head, on 23 May 2025 
 
146
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 
 Figure 21: Stakeholder Consultation in Makalisung Village, on 3 June 2025 
147
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 Figure 22: Stakeholder Resolution with Kayuwatu Village Head, on 17 June 2025 
 
 Figure 23: Stakeholder Consultation in Kayuwatu Village, on 2 July 2025 
148
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
 
 Figure 24: Stakeholder Resolution with Mahembang Village Head, on 10 July 2025 
 
  
Figure 25: Stakeholder Consultation in Mahembang Village, on 18 July 2025 
149
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
APPENDIX 4: STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION 
Table 27. Stakeholders identification 
Name of Stakeholder Description Relevance for the project 
 
Masarang Foundation Field Implementer The Masarang Foundation will 
be responsible for the 
on-ground project 
management and field 
implementation activity, 
including activities of nursery 
management, community 
engagement, conducting 
training, monitoring of project 
activities, data collection, and 
central administration and 
support functions. 
Local communities and 
Landowners 
Local smallholder farmers, 
landowners, and community 
farmers, who are willing and 
interested in participating in 
the project by allocating their 
lands and committing to the 
agroforestry activities and their 
additional co-benefits 
Providing land for the project 
activity and will be the 
immediate beneficiaries of the 
agroforestry products and 
non-timber forest products. 
Investors, corporate 
buyers, and private 
companies 
 Supply funding, secure 
markets for carbon 
credits, and support 
secondary agroforestry 
products (spices, timber, 
honey), Expect clear carbon 
outcomes, risk mitigation, 
and strong 
social/environmental 
performance (ESG). 
Community-based 
organizations (CBOs) in North 
Sulawesi 
such as Gabungan 
Kelompok Tani (GAPOKTAN, 
Farmers Producers 
Organization or FPOs), Karang 
Taruna (a social youth 
organization), and Pembinaan 
Kesejahteraan Keluarga (PKK, a 
family welfare initiative) 
Promoting social cohesion and 
supporting environmental 
initiatives, supporting 
restoration projects by 
providing 
resources such as seeds, 
fertilizers, and planting 
supplies, as well as offering 
training programs that improve 
soil health and promote 
agroforestry systems. 
Traditional & customary 
authorities 
Traditional leaders and 
customary law in North 
Sulawesi Province. 
Any initiative related to land 
tenure, conservation, or 
development in North Sulawesi 
must incorporate both 
chiefstain and church 
involvement to ensure local 
legitimacy, regulatory 
150
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
Name of Stakeholder Description Relevance for the project 
 
compliance, and long-term 
success. 
Government agencies At the national level, the 
Ministry of Forestry, Ministry of 
Environment, Ministry of 
Agriculture, National Land 
Agency (BPN). 
At the local level, the Governor 
of North Sulawesi, Village 
administrations. 
Managing and utilizing 
forest resources, oversees 
environmental protection, 
control, and restoration, 
ensuring alignment with 
Indonesia’s Enhanced 
Nationally Determined 
Contributions (ENDC) and 
national carbon regulations, 
etc. 
Research Institutions Institutions which provide 
support and additional 
expertise to the project, the 
local research institutions is 
Teknologi Minaesa (ITM) 
Institute. 
Improve project goals by 
leveraging expertise in 
land management surveys, GIS, 
and IT support, community 
outreach, 
capacity-building initiatives, 
and conservation research. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
151
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
APPENDIX 5: STAKEHOLDER DIVERSITY 
 
Table 28. Stakeholder diversity in North Sulawesi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
152
 
District Village Sub-ethnic Religion Livelihood 
North Sulawesi Mangkit, 
Mahembang, 
Temboan, 
Kayuroya, 
Makalisung, 
Ranoketang Tua, 
Kahuhu, Tomohon 
Minahasa Christian or 
Protestan 
Community 
activites: 
agriculture, 
forestry, fishery, 
manufacturing 
industry, 
construction, 
transportation and 
warehousing, 
wholesale and 
retail trade 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
APPENDIX 6: STAKEHOLDER ONGOING 
COMMUNICATION 
Table 29. Ongoing communication with stakeholders via WhatsApp group. 
Illustrations Remarks 
 
The screenshot on the left is an example of 
the Whatsapp group used during 
participatory survey activities. Community 
members included in this group are 
Participant/participatory survey teams.  
 
The WhatsApp group is used by ITM as a 
platform for participatory survey 
teams/enumerators to report survey-related 
activities. As shown in this screenshot, ITM 
reports on its team stationed in Kahuku, 
Bangka Island, Likupang, along with the 
activities carried out there. 
 
In addition, The Whatsapp group facilitates 
two way communication where it is used not 
only to disseminate information from ITM but 
it serves as an avenue for stakeholders to 
share opinions and feedback.  
 
Based on this screenshot, it can also be seen 
that Ms. Aulia Reinozha, as the Project 
Implementation Partner, provided input to 
ITM, suggesting that completed data should 
be reported to the Thryve Earth team, 
specifically to Ms. Dilla Syifa Nurfadillah.  
 
 
153
 

 VCS Project Description Template, v4.4 
APPENDIX 7: ENDANGERED AND CRITICALLY 
ENDANGERED FAUNA 
 
Table 30. List of endangered and critically endangered fauna species in Project Area 
No 
Type 
Fauna 
Genus, Species Common Name Local Name 
IUCN Red List Status: Endangered 
1 Mamalia 
Bubalus 
depressicornis 
The Lowland Anoa Anoa dataran rendah 
2 Mamalia Bubalus quarlesi The Mountain Anoa Anoa pegunungan 
IUCN Red List Status: Critically Endangered 
1 Mamalia Macaca nigra 
Sulawesi Crested 
Black Macaque  
Yaki/Monyet hitam 
2 Aves 
Macrocephalon 
maleo 
The Maleo 
Burung maleo/Maleo 
senkawor 
 
154
 