

Study Abroad Report    
   
 
 
Dates of stay abroad   from: .........17/09/2025..... till:...............30/01/2026 
Academic year    2025 / 2026 
Type of activity abroad   ............Faculty exchange..................................................... 
(e.g. exchange, free mover) 
Name of university/institution abroad ...............Charles University..................................................... 
City/town    ........................Prague..................................................................... 
Country    ...............Czech Republic...................................................... 
Leiden University study programme: 
- Bachelor or Master   ...............Bachelor......................................................... 
- Programme name   ...............International Relations and Organizations............ 
- Faculty    .....................Behavioral Sciences................................................
   
 
Dear Student,  
 
We hope you thoroughly enjoyed your study activities abroad and had a memorable time. Leiden 
University would very much like to hear about your experiences so we can continue improving our 
study abroad programmes. Your fellow students who are thinking of studying abroad would also love 
to read your tips and advice. Remember all the questions you had when you were choosing your 
destination and making preparations? Well now it’s your turn to help out by submitting a detailed 
study abroad report.  
 
When and how to submit 
Within one month of the end of your study activity abroad, upload your study abroad report in the 
study abroad portal, in the ‘upon return’ section. Remember that late submission can have 
consequences for the recognition of your study credits and your scholarship entitlement (if 
applicable).   
 
Specifications 
- Write your report in the table below.  
- Your report must be in English.  
- Cover all the topics mentioned (if applicable) and provide as much detail as possible - at least 
600 words  
- Do not include any names or contact details, including your own, for privacy reasons.  
 
Communication with 
host university or 
institution: 
both before and 
during stay 
The international office at Charles University is very helpful. Most of the times 
they reply quite fast and try to help you. Only during the start of the semester 
when everyone is arriving, it might take them a couple of days to get back to 
you. The international office and the university help centre are always open, 
so you can also go there once you have arrived in prague.  
Welcome and 
orientation services: 
compulsory/optional, 
cost, quality 
The orientation day was compulsory to attend. It was a very helpful day; they 
explained how the university websites, libraries, buildings, worked and gave 
additional information on for example mental health guidance and police 
registration. Any orientation “week” activity was free, and it varied from 
campus tour to getting drinks in the evening. They also had various activities 

planned that were not compulsory like scavenger hunts, sports games, 
campus tours, city tours.  
Accommodation: 
arrangement, type, 
location, costs, quality 
 
I stayed at the university dorms that were offered by the university. There are 
many dorm buildings across the city. I stayed at Koleje Hvezda in Prague 6 
which was luckily just renovated. Most of the dorms are near public transport, 
either metro, tram, or bus, and will either have their own supermarket or are 
near some. The quality of the dorms really differed per building. There are 
some that are less clean because they’re old. The room size differs per 
building as well. The ones that are further away from the city centre have 
bigger rooms available, as well as individual private rooms. Mine was more 
central but the rooms were smaller. The room in general was tidy and clean. 
The kitchen and bathrooms get cleaned by cleaners on weekdays which really 
help improve the overall situation. In most dorms there are laundry rooms, as 
well as rooms to hang out and chill. Mine even had a bar, cinema room, study 
room, gym, and a club. The rent was around 200 euros per month.  
Costs: 
living expenses, rent, 
study materials, 
insurances, available 
scholarships 
 
If you decide to stay in the university dorms, the rent is around 200 euro per 
month. Depending on your lifestyle groceries would cost at minimum 30 
euros a month. In Prague, everything is quite cheap except stuff like medicine 
and electronics. As an EU citizen, the EU Health Card was enough for me to 
have. Regarding study materials, books are available on their (online) library 
but there are not many readings to do. The Erasmus grant is around 3000 
euros, depending on if you get the green travel scholarschip as well, which is 
very sufficient to live off of.   
Visa and residence 
permit (if applicable): 
procedures, costs, 
deadlines 
-  
Education system: 
language, differences, 
quality 
The English level of the classes you can take really differed per professor. 
Most of them had a strong german/Czech accent which made it difficult to 
understand. Almost all of the classes had some English mistakes either on the 
slides, exam questions and readings. Following the classes was difficult due to 
the teacher’s English level where it was difficult to understand the context of 
the class, but in most cases the PowerPoints helped. Depending on the class, 
you might have more homework to do and submit than that we are used to in 
Leiden. Overall the content of the classes is good quality and you will learn 
more in depth stuff than in leiden. The classes are also smaller around 15 
people per class.  
Courses and credits:  
number of courses 
taken, credit system, 
recommended 
courses 
I took 6 courses. Charles also uses the ECTS system but not every course is 5 
ECTS, it differs. If you do a faculty exchange, you have the possibility to take 
half of your courses at another faculty. I took half of my courses in the law 
faculty (constitutional law, critical legal theory, and public international law in 
European context) which I highly recommend because they go in depth and 
are really high quality. In the social sciences faculty (your host faculty), I 
would recommend taking masters courses if you really want to specialize in a 
subject, they tend to go more in depth about a subject. I took economics of 
green deal, environmental policy instruments, and feminism in IR. The last 
two were taught really well and were very enjoyable. Economics of green deal 
however was taught poorly and organized badly.  
Guidance and 
support:  
The international office is very helpful for academic problems regarding ECTS, 
course registration, Erasmus documents, and learning agreements. They also 
really help if you have an illness or emergency situation. The quality of help 

academic, personal 
and practical 
 
that the Erasmus/international office offers does differ per faculty. Social 
sciences were really helpful, while law faculty wasn’t as responsive.  
Culture, customs and 
social life 
 
The Erasmus bubble and student life in Prague is very nice and social. Czech 
people, however, can be a bit xenophobic at times, especially if you are non-
European presenting. The traffic rules are also quite strict in Prague, so make 
sure you always have your transport card or a valid ticket with you. The city is 
very safe during the day and night, as a girl I didn’t feel unsafe by myself at all. 
There is a big drinking culture in Prague, but absolutely no pressure to 
participate. If you go to events such as theatres and concerts it is customary 
to dress fancy.  The Czech people aren’t very extroverted or like to have small 
talk but once you befriend them, they are lovely. Knowing a couple of 
introductory words in Czech will definitely help. Public transport is very easy 
and is the best way to get anywhere.  
Tips and tricks for 
future students:  
both for preparations 
and during stay 
 
Before your trip, I would make sure to bring your valuable electronics and not 
purchase them in prague. I would also bring good boots and clothing for the 
snow/ice. The food/water might get you sick here sometimes so I would bring 
medicine to help you with that. revolut can really help if you don’t want to 
pay the conversion fee to czech crowns a lot, but it is very doable without. It is 
also useful to have cash by hand during your stay in prague, to get cash, I 
would use the bank KB to have the lowest conversion fees. Also if you need to 
pick between paying in euros or in Czech crowns, always pick czech crowns for 
the cheapest price.  
Short testimonial:   
what did your study 
abroad experience 
mean to you, what 
did you gain, greatest 
memories etc.   
My exchange in prague was the best experience in my life so far. Of course it 
has its lows and highs bu overall it really helps you grow as a person. I gained 
so much more insight to myself, what I want in life, and who I want in my life. 
I met the best people and made valuable friendships there. Since it is also 
central Europe, it’s the best place to just get on a train and travel around. My 
best memories were made with the people I met there and the new places we 
went on an adventure to.  
Anything else you 
would like to share  
 
 
 
Privacy  
When submitting your report in the study abroad portal, you will be asked to grant permission for it 
to be uploaded in Leiden University’s student reports database in an anonymised form. Here it can 
be accessed by Leiden University students who are also considering studying abroad. You can find 
further information on how the data in your study abroad report is stored and used in the Study 
Abroad Reports Privacy notice. 