

 PROJECT REVIEW REPORT 
 
     
v4.0   
1 
PROJECT REVIEW REPORT 
Project ID 
1477 
Project Name 
Katingan Peatland Restoration and Conservation Project  
Program(s) 
VCS  
Verification Period 
01 January 2020 – 31 December 2020 
Project Proponent 
PT. Rimba Makmur Utama  
Methodology  
VM0007 
Sectoral Scope(s) 
AFOLU (14) - REDD+, WRC, ARR 
Validation/Verification 
Body (VVB) 
Aster Global Environmental Solutions, Inc.  
 
Assessment Criteria 
VCS Standard, v4.1 
Date of First Issue 
24 February 2022 
Date of Final Issue 
22 March 2022 
 
Summary: 
An  accuracy  review  of  the Katingan  Peatland  Restoration  and  Conservation  Project VCS  verification  approval 
request has been conducted by Verra in accordance with Section 4.3 of the Registration and Issuance Process, 
v4.0. 
The review has raised two assessment findings and no minor findings, detailed below. The VVB, in coordination 
with  the  project  proponent,  is  hereby  required  to  provide  a  response  to  the  assessment  findings  presented in 
Section 1. The two assessment findings must be addressed to the satisfaction of Verra.  
This project review report will be made publicly available. Confidential information may be provided as separate 
attachments. 
  

 PROJECT REVIEW REPORT 
 
     
v4.0   
2 
1. ASSESSMENT FINDINGS 
Finding 1 
Section  3.17.3  of  the VCS  Standard  v4.1 states  that  methodology  deviations  shall  be  permitted  at 
validation or verification and their consequences shall be reported in the validation or verification report, 
as applicable, and all subsequent verification reports. 
Section 2.1.2 of the monitoring report and Section 3.2 of the verification report state that there are no 
methodology or PD deviations for this period. However, deviations have been reported in the previous 
verification periods which must be reported in all subsequent verification reports.  
The project  proponent is  requested  to describe  and report deviations  from  the  previous  verification 
periods in Section 2.1.2 of the monitoring report. 
The VVB is  requested  to  assess  the  information  and  updated  Section  3.2  of  the verification  report 
accordingly. 
VVB Response:  
Thank  you  for  the  accuracy  assessment  finding.  The  VVB  requested  an  updated  MR  from  the  Project 
Proponent in which all deviations are reported. The VVB reviewed the deviations and confirmed that the 
inclusion  was  of  the  deviations  accurate.  Furthermore, the  VVB  confirmed  that  the deviations  were 
described and justified in line with the VCS Standard v4.1. The VVB has updated the Verification Report 
to reflect the additional review of the PD Deviations.  
Verra Response:  
Section 2.1.2 of the monitoring report and Section 3.2 of the verification report were updated to 
include the previous project description deviations. 
No further action is required. 
 
Finding 2 
The recently signed  Presidential Decree, The Economic Value of Carbon, includes “Implementation of 
Carbon  Economic  Value  for  The  Achievement  of  The  Target  National  Determined  Contributions  and 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory in National Development:  
Chapter  48, Clause  3a:  Where carbon  trading  that  happens  nationally  or  internationally  must  be 
registered under the SRN PPI (National Registry System)  
Chapter 54, Clause 7: Carbon trading that occurs in a marketplace must be conducted in the Indonesian 
marketplace.  
Section 2.4 of the monitoring report does not list the above presidential decree and Sections 1.9 or 1.10 
do not state if the project is registered under the SRN PPI. Similarly, Section 3.1 of the verification report 
states the project is not registered with any other GHG program.  
The project  proponent is  requested  to  clarify  if  the  project  adheres  to  Clauses  3a  and  7  of  the 
presidential decree, The Economic Value of Carbon, described above.  
The VVB is requested to assess the evidence that demonstrates accordance with the presidential 
decree accordingly. 

 PROJECT REVIEW REPORT 
 
     
v4.0   
3 
VVB Response:  
We have conducted a preliminary review of this law and it appears that this Presidential Decree 
came into effect on October 29, 2021, which is outside the monitoring period for this verification 
(01 January 2019 - 31 December 2019). The audit team discussed this new law via email with the 
project and their assessment closely aligns with our independent assessment of this law. As a 
result, the VVB is issuing a Forward Action Request (FAR) related to regulatory compliance criteria 
within the VCS Standard, specifically with respect to the Presidential Decree issue on 29 October 
2021 (Presidential Regulation No.98 of 2021). This is new law that could potentially affect the 
project; however, after a review of the current status of the law and associated regulations the VVB 
has determined that currently there has been no implementing regulations confirmed by the 
Indonesian government. Without the implementing regulations, it is unclear how this law will be 
implemented and who the parties affected will be. The VVB is requesting that future verifiers confirm 
that the project has complied with this law. 
Verra Response:  
The project proponent clearly documents adherence to the Presidential Decree, The Economic Value of 
Carbon. After a review of the law, the VVB concludes the project is in compliance.  
No further action is required. 
 
2. MINOR FINDINGS  
No minor findings were raised. 
3. ASSESSMENT CONCLUSION 
On 23 February 2022, Verra concluded the review of the VCS verification approval request for the project 
Katingan Peatland Restoration and Conservation Project and raised the two assessment findings detailed 
above. The project review report was sent to the VVB, Aster Global Environmental Solutions Inc., on 24 
February 2022. 
On 22 March 2022, Verra closed all findings for the sixth verification request for the Katingan Peatland 
Restoration and Conservation Project. No further action is required. 
 
  
 
 
 