

VCS Project Description Template  
 1 
 
 
 
Voluntary Carbon Standard  
Project Description Template  
 
Date of the VCS PD: 4 July 2011 
 
Version of the VCS PD: 2 
 
Only  the  section  1.12,  1.13,  1.14,  8.1  &  8.2  are  to  be 
addressed. For rest of the sections refer to the CDM PDD. 
Contents 
1 Description of Project: ............................ 1 
2 VCS Methodology: ................................... 3 
3 Monitoring: ........................................ 4 
4 GHG Emission Reductions: ........................... 4 
5 Environmental Impact: .............................. 5 
6 Stakeholders comments: ............................. 5 
7 Schedule: .......................................... 5 
8 Ownership: ......................................... 5 
 
1 Description of Project:  
 
1.1 Project title  
 
Wayang Windu Phase 2 Geothermal Power Project 
 
1.2 Type/Category of the project  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section A.4.2 
 
1.3 Estimated  amount  of  emission  reductions  over  the 
crediting period including project size: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section A.4.4 
 
1.4 A brief description of the project: 
 
 

VCS Project Description Template  
 2 
 Refer to registered PDD section A.2 
 
1.5 Project  location  including  geographic  and  physical 
information  allowing  the  unique  identification  and 
delineation of the specific extent of the project: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section A.4.1.4 
 
1.6 Duration of the project activity/crediting period: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section A.4.4, C.2.1 
 
1.7 Conditions prior to project initiation: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section A.2 
 
1.8 A  description  of  how  the  project  will  achieve  GHG 
emission reductions and/or removal enhancements: 
  
 Refer to registered PDD section A.2 
 
1.9 Project  technologies,  products,  services  and  the 
expected level of activity:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section A.4.3 
 
1.10 Compliance with relevant local laws and regulations 
related to the project: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section D.1 
 
1.11 Identification of  risks  that  may  substantially 
affect  the  project’s  GHG  emission  reductions  or 
removal enhancements: 
 
Refer  to  registered  PDD  section B.6.1  (risks  include  unusual 
circumstances  such  as  natural  disasters,  conflicts,  transmission 
constraints) 
 
1.12 Demonstration to  confirm that  the  project  was  not 
implemented to create GHG emissions primarily for the 
purpose of its subsequent removal or destruction.  
 
The project activity will reduce 794,832 tCO
2
e annually by replacing 
carbon-intensive grid electricity, which otherwise would have been 
produced mainly by fossil fuel power plants.  In the absence of the 
project activity, the baseline case is the provision of the equivalent 
amount of annual power generated mostly by fossil fuel power plants 
supplied to the grid (the JAMALI Grid) to which the project is 
connected. 
 
Therefore, it is confirmed that the project was not implemented to 
create GHG emissions primarily for the purpose of its subsequent 
removal or destruction. 
 
 
1.13 Demonstration  that  the  project  has  not  created 
another  form  of  environmental  credit  (for  example 
renewable energy certificates). 
 

VCS Project Description Template  
 3 
The project activity is a registered CDM project (UNFCCC Reference No. 
3193), which was registered on December 2, 2010.  As a registered CDM 
project, the project is able to claim Certified Emissions Reductions 
(CERs).  Any emission reductions generated from the project starting from 
the registration date will be verified under the CDM as CERs.  Any 
emission reductions generated outside of the CDM (e.g., emission 
reductions generated prior to the CDM registration date, which do not 
qualify as CERs) have been generated voluntarily.  Through the 
application of this project under the VCS, those voluntary emission 
reductions will be validated and verified as VERs. There will not be any 
overlap or double counting of the emission reductions from the project 
since there is a clear delineation between when emissions reductions are 
generated under the CDM and voluntarily.  
 
1.14 Project  rejected  under  other  GHG  programs (if 
applicable): 
 
The  project  is  not  rejected  under  any  other  GHG  program the  project. 
The project activity is a registered CDM project (UNFCCC Reference No. 
3193), which was registered on December 2, 2010.   
 
1.15 Project   proponents roles   and   responsibilities, 
including   contact   information   of   the   project 
proponent, other project participants: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD Annex 1 
 
1.16 Any information relevant for the eligibility of the 
project  and  quantification  of  emission  reductions  or 
removal    enhancements,    including    legislative, 
technical, economic, sectoral, social, environmental, 
geographic, site-specific and temporal information.): 
 
Not applicable. 
 
1.17 List  of  commercially  sensitive  information (if 
applicable):  
 
The commercially sensitive documents will be provided to the audit team 
during the validation process. 
 
2 VCS Methodology: 
 
2.1 Title and reference of the VCS methodology applied to 
the  project  activity  and  explanation  of  methodology 
choices: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.1 
 
2.2 Justification  of  the  choice  of  the  methodology  and 
why it is applicable to the project activity: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.2 
 
2.3 Identifying GHG sources, sinks and reservoirs for the 
baseline scenario and for the project:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.3 
 

VCS Project Description Template  
 4 
2.4 Description   of   how   the baseline   scenario   is 
identified and description of the identified baseline 
scenario:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.4 
 
2.5 Description of how the emissions of GHG by source in 
baseline scenario are reduced below those that would 
have occurred in the absence of the project activity 
(assessment and demonstration of additionality): 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.5 
 
3 Monitoring: 
 
3.1  Title  and  reference  of  the  VCS  methodology  (which 
includes  the  monitoring  requirements)  applied  to  the 
project  activity  and  explanation  of  methodology 
choices:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.1 
 
3.2 Monitoring,    including    estimation,    modelling, 
measurement or calculation approaches:   
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.6 
 
3.3 Data  and  parameters  monitored  /  Selecting  relevant 
GHG  sources,  sinks  and  reservoirs  for  monitoring  or 
estimating GHG emissions and removals:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.7.1 
 
3.4 Description of the monitoring plan  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.7.2 
 
4 GHG Emission Reductions:  
 
4.1 Explanation of methodological choice:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.6.1 
 
4.2 Quantifying  GHG  emissions  and/or  removals  for  the 
baseline scenario:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.6.3 
 
4.3 Quantifying  GHG  emissions  and/or  removals  for  the 
project:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.6.3 
 
4.4 Quantifying  GHG  emission  reductions  and  removal 
enhancements for the GHG project:  
 
 Refer to registered PDD section B.6.3 

VCS Project Description Template  
 5 
 
5 Environmental Impact: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section D 
 
6 Stakeholders comments: 
 
 Refer to registered PDD section E 
 
7 Schedule: 
    
Project start date = 4 Mar 2009 
8 Ownership: 
 
8.1 Proof of Title: 
 
Star Energy Geothermal (Wayang Windu) Limited (project owner) owns the 
Wayang Windu Phase 2 Geothermal Power Project. The proof of title for the 
Project is detailed below through   
 
Legislative Right 
 
Star Energy Geothermal (Wayang Windu) Limited (formerly Magma Nusantara 
Limited/MNL) has the exclusive right to exploit and utilize geothermal 
energy in the Wayang Windu allotment through a Joint Operating Contract 
(JOC)dated 2
nd
 December 1994, as amended on 21
st
 November 2006 between MNL 
and PT Pertamina Geothermal Energy Persero (formerly Perusahaan 
Pertambangan Minyak dan Gas Bumi Negara, the Indonesian state-owned oil 
company) and approved by the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources of 
Indonesia. The amended JOC runs for a term of 42 years from the 
effective date of the JOC, 2
nd
 December 1994, until 2
nd
 December 2036. 
 
MNL has the exclusive rights to sell electricity generated from the 
project to PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN) under am Energy Sales 
Contract (ESC) dated 2
nd
 December 1994 as amended on 21
st
 November 2006 
and approved by the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources of 
Inodnesia. The amended ESC also runs for a term of 42 years from 2
nd
 
December 1994 until 2
nd
 December 2036.  
 
Other rights and approvals 
 
The Letter of Approval for the project was issued by the National 
Committee on CDM (Designated National Authority for the Republic of 
Indonesia) to Star Energy Geothermal (Wayang Windu) Limited on 8
th
 May 
2009.  
 
Ownership of the plant, equipment and/or process generating the 
reductions/removals 
 
Below is a list of contracts signed between Star Energy Geothermal 
(Wayang Windu) Limited regarding the construction of the Wayang Windu 
Phase 2 Geothermal Power Project and purchase of equipment. 
 
Date  Contract Contracting Parties 
11-Jul-05 Purchase contract for 
Tubular components for 
geothermal drilling 
(No. WDA J-0255) 
Magma Nusantara Limited 
(MNL) 
30-Jan-07 EPC Contract for power 
plant and steam 
pipeline (Contract no. 
71510012-OS) 
Star Energy Holdings Pte.Lrd 
 

VCS Project Description Template  
 6 
8.2 Projects  that  reduce  GHG  emissions  from  activities 
that  participate  in  an  emissions  trading  program (if 
applicable): 
 
Not applicable. 
  
 