

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 1 
 
 
 
Voluntary Carbon Standard 2007 
 
Validation Report: 
Name of  
Verification company: 
Date of the issue: 
Scientific Certification Systems (SCS) August 31,  2011 
Report Title: Approved by: 
Rimba Raya VCS Validation Report  Todd Frank 
Client:  Project Title: 
InfiniteEARTH Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 2 
Summary: 
This   validation   assessed   the   Rimba   Raya   Biodiversity   Reserve   Project   for 
conformance   against   the   Voluntary Carbon   Standard   2007.1   (VCS) and   its   
supporting documents including  the  selected  VCS  approved  methodology  VM0004 
– VM0004  Methodology  for  Conservation  Projects  that  Avoid  Planned  Land  Use  
Conversion in Peat Swamp Forests, Version 1.0. 
 
The  project  proponent  is  Infinite  Earth.  SCS  has  confirmed  that  Infinite  Earth  
sufficiently  demonstrated  ‘user  rights’  to  the  project  area  to  achieve  validation  
under the VCS 2007.1.  The review of the project design documentation, field visits 
and subsequent follow-up interviews have provided SCS with sufficient evidence to 
determine the fulfillment of the stated criteria. 
 
The  project  correctly  applies  the  approved  VCS  methodology  element  VM0004  – 
Methodology for Conservation Projects that Avoid Planned Land Use Conversion in 
Peat Swamp Forests, Version 1.0. 
 
The main project activity is to prevent deforestation caused by land use conversion 
to  palm  oil  plantation.  The  project  results  in  reductions  of  GHG  emissions  that  are 
real, measurable and give long-term benefits to the mitigation of climate change. 
 
Emission  reductions  attributable  to  the  project  have  been  shown  to  be  additional  
to  any  that  would  occur  in  the  absence  of  the  project  activity.  The  total  emission  
reductions  from  the  project  are  estimated  to  be  105,853,625  tCO
2
e  over  the  30-
year   crediting   period   (1   July,   2009   to   30   June,   2038).   This   includes   project 
emissions,   total   confidence   deduction   and leakage 
deduction   applied   as   per   
VM004,  and  the  VCS  AFOLU  buffer  deductions  currently  assessed  at 20%.  This  
estimate  assumes  the  baseline  does  not  change  during  the  baseline  re-evaluation. 
Adequate training and monitoring procedures have been implemented. 
 
In summary, it is the opinion of SCS that the “The Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve 
Project”  in Central  Kalimantan,  Indonesia  as  described  in  the  VCS  PD  of  April  20  
2011,  meets  all  relevant  VCS  2007.1  requirements  for  validation  and  correctly  
applies   the   VCS   approved   methodology   element   VM0004   Methodology   for 
Conservation  Projects  that  Avoid  Planned  Land  Use  Conversion  in  Peat  Swamp  
Forests, Version 1.0. 
 
Work carried out by: Number of 
pages: 
Dr. Carly Green – SCS Lead Auditor 
Mr. Todd Frank – Auditor  
Dr. Aswin Usup – Peat Specialists/Local Translator 
Mr. Yosep Hut – Local Forestry Specialist 
Mr. Ryan Anderson – Spatial Analyst Specialist 
Mr. Zane Haxton – Technical Review 
83 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 3 
Contents 
1 Introduction 4 
1.1 Objective 4 
1.2 Scope and Criteria 4 
1.3 VCS Project Description 4 
1.4 Level of Assurance 5 
1.5 SCS Audit Team 5 
2 Methodology 6 
2.1 Review of Document 7 
2.2 Follow-up Interviews 9 
2.3 Resolution of any Material Discrepancy 9 
3 Validation Findings 10 
3.1 Project Design 10 
3.2 Baseline 17 
3.3 Monitoring Plan 21 
3.4 Calculation of GHG Emissions 25 
3.5 Environmental and Social Impact 47 
3.6 Project Risk 49 
4 Validation conclusion 49 
5 Appendix A – Responses to Non Conformity Requests / New Information 
Requests / Opportunities for Improvement 51
 
 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 4 
1 Introduction 
1.1 Objective 
The objective of the validation by SCS is  to provide an independent assessment 
of  the  proposed  project  activity  against  all  defined  criteria  as  defined  by  the  
Voluntary  Carbon  Standard  (VCS).  Validation  will  result  in  a  conclusion  by  SCS  
as  to  whether  the  project  activity  is  compliant  with  the  VCS  standard  and  
whether   the   Project   should   be   submitted   for   registration.   The   ultimate   
decision on the registration of a proposed project activity rests with VCS. 
 
1.2 Scope and Criteria 
The Project  was  assessed for  conformance  against  the  VCS  Standard  2007.1  
and    its    supporting    documents    including    the    selected    VCS    approved    
methodology. 
 
The scope of the audit encompassed the  analysis  of  documentation, data  and  
calculations   and   the   outcomes   of   field   visits   to   the   project   area   and   
stakeholder   discussions.   The   SCS   Lead   Auditor   issued   a  number  of  New 
Information   Requests   (NIR)   and   Non-Conformity   Reports   (NCR) and   re-
analyzed new submissions arising from the project proponent response to the 
issues raised. These issues were subsequently closed and the validation report 
finalized. 
 
1.3 VCS Project Description 
The  Rimba  Raya  Biodiversity  Reserve Project is  an  initiative  by  Infinite  Earth, 
which aims  to  reduce  GHG emissions  by  protect  91,215  hectares  of  tropical  
peat  swamp  forest  from  conversion  to  palm  oil.  This  area,  rich  in  biodiversity  
including  the  endangered  Bornean  orangutan,  was  slated  by  the  Provincial  
government to be converted into four palm oil estates.  
 
Located   on   the   southern   coast   of   Borneo   in   the   province   of   Central   
Kalimantan, the Project is also designed to protect the integrity of the adjacent 
world-renowned  Tanjung  Puting  National  Park  (TPNP),  by  creating  a  physical  
buffer zone on the full extent of the ~90km eastern border of the park. 
 
This project will avoid the loss of forest through the conversion to palm oil and 
is   therefore   classified   as   Reducing   Emissions   from   Deforestation   and   
Degradation   (REDD)   through   Avoided   Planned   Deforestation   (APD).   The 
methodology  applied  is  the  VM0004  Methodology  for  Conservation  Projects  
that  Avoid  Planned  Land  Use  Conversion  in  Peat  Swamp  Forests,  Version  1.0, 
developed by Winrock International.  
 
The Project  qualifies  as  a  Mega  Project  as  it  is  estimated  that  it  will  reduce 
atmospheric  emissions  by  131,107,818 t  CO
2
e  over  a  30-year  project  life. 
Following confidence and risk buffer deductions, the total emission reductions 
from  the  Project  are  estimated  to  be  104,886,254  tCO
2
e  over  the  30-year 
crediting period (1 July, 2009 to 30 June, 2039). 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 5 
1.4 Level of Assurance 
SCS provides reasonable assurance that the emission reduction estimations for 
the  “Rimba  Raya  Biodiversity  Reserve  Project”  are  conservative  and  meet  the  
VCS    criteria    and    approved    methodology,    VM0004    Methodology    for    
Conservation Projects that Avoid Planned Land Use Conversion in Peat Swamp 
Forests, Version 1.0. 
 
To   ensure   complete   transparency,   SCS   has   included   any   clarification   or   
corrective actions that were raised with the proponent and their responses at 
the end of this validation report.  
 
1.5 SCS Audit Team 
Dr Carly Green – Lead Validator 
Dr Carly Green has   10   years   International   experience   in   cross   sector   
greenhouse   gas   accounting.   Her   experience   extends   through   research,   
government  policy  adviser,  project  developer,  training  facilitator,  and  lead  
auditor  in  Europe,  South  America  and  Asia  Pacific.  She  completed  her  PhD  in  
Europe  in  2006  with  her  research  contributing  to  IPCC  National  level  carbon  
accounting   methodologies   in   Agriculture,   Forestry   and   Other   Land   Use   
(AFOLU).  Since  then  she  has  been  a  policy  adviser  to  the  Irish  and  Australian  
governments  and  involved  in  the  development  of  IPCC  compliant  forest  sink  
accounting  methodologies  for  projects  in  Australia,  South  America,  Indonesia,  
China  and  Kenya.  She  has  lead  or  participated  in  over  10  forest  project  and  
methodology validation/verifications under a range of standards including ISO 
14064,   the   Voluntary   Carbon   Standard   and   the   Climate   Community   and   
Biodiversity standard.  She is a VCSA-approved AFOLU expert for IFM and ALM 
project types. 
 
Todd Frank - Validator 
Mr.  Frank  holds  a  master’s  degree  in  International  Environmental  Policy  from  
the  University  of  California  San  Diego  and  a  Bachelor’s  degree  from  the  
University  of  California  at  Berkeley.  Mr.  Frank  is  certified  as  a  lead  verifier  
under  the  CAR,  VCS,  CCB,  CCX,  and  TCR  programs  and  has  formal  training  in  
ISO  14064  and  ISO  9001.  He  has  served  as  lead  verifier  for  a  wide  range  of  
projects  across  various  industries,  globally.  Mr.  Frank  also  has  experience  in  
emissions  trading  and  offset  project  development  experience  having  worked  
on the first project ever to be validated to the CCB standard.  Mr. Frank serves 
on  the  Verification  Advisory  Board  for  The  Climate  Registry  and  serves  on  the  
Advisory  Board  for  Northern  Arizona  University’s  Climate  Science  Solutions  
master’s program. 
 
Dr Aswin Usup – Peat Specialists/Local Translator 
Dr  Aswin  Usup  has  earned  a  master’s  and  doctorate  degree  in  Earth  Systems  
Science,  specializing  in  Geoecology  from  Hokkaido  University  in  Japan.    Dr. 
Usup is a lecturer at the School of Agriculture as well as the Graduate School of 
Natural  Resources  and  Environmental  Science  at  the  University  of  Palangka  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 6 
Raya  in  Central  Kalimantan,  Indonesia.  Dr.  Usup  has  spent  his  time  studying  
environmental ecology, concentrating on the effect of fires on microclimates in 
tropical  peat  lands.  In  2005  Dr.  Usup  became  the  director  of  the  Research  
Center  for  Fire  Prevention  &  Land  Rehabilitation  at  the  University  of  Palangka  
Raya.   
 
Ryan Anderson – Spatial Analyst Specialist 
Mr. Anderson  holds  a  BS  in  Environmental  Science  from  the  University  of  
Denver   and   an   MS   in   Natural   Resource   Science   and   Management   with   
emphasis   in   geospatial   assessment,   monitoring,   and   modeling   of   forest   
resources.   His   experience   with   terrestrial carbon   cycle   related   research   
includes  work  at  the  Cedar  Creek  Long  Term  Ecological  Research  Station,  the  
Chequamegon  Ecosystem  Atmosphere  Study,  and  the  North  American  Carbon  
Program's Site Synthesis modeling effort. His master’s work focused on the use 
of  LiDAR  remote  sensing  for  improved  land  cover  classification,  inventory  of  
forest  carbon  stocks,  and  modeling  of  mean  annual  growth  increments  in  the  
Chequamegon National Forest in northern Wisconsin. He is currently pursuing 
a  Ph.  D.  in  Forestry  with  the  University  of  Montana’s  Numerical  Terradynamic  
Simulation Group. His research focuses on the development and calibration of 
physiologically-based  models  of  terrestrial  ecosystem  carbon,  nitrogen,  and  
water cycles. 
 
Zane Haxton – Technical Review 
Mr. Haxton holds a M.S. in Forest Resources from Oregon State University and 
a B.S. from The Evergreen State College. A well-rounded forestry professional, 
Mr.   Haxton   held   a   wide   variety   of   positions   in   forest   research   and   
management  before  coming  to  SCS,  ranging  from  work  on  logging  and  tree  
planting  crews  to  experience  as  a  biological  sampling  technician  and  research  
assistant. Mr. Haxton is a specialist in forest inventory, with areas of expertise 
including  sampling  design,  inventory  management  and  the  use  of  growth  and  
yield   models   to   evaluate   potential   management   regimes.   Mr.   Haxton   is   
currently  a  verifier  under  the  Climate  Action  Reserve,  the  Verified  Carbon  
Standard and the Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standard 
 
2 Methodology 
SCS  began  reviewing  the  Project  in  June  2010,  beginning  with  a  desk  audit  of  
the    proponent’s    project    documentation    and    phone    calls    and    email    
correspondence  with  various  Infinite  Earth  staff.  An  SCS  team  of  independent 
auditors  conducted  a  formal  site  visit  to  complete  the  fieldwork,  interviews 
and  assessment  of  procedures  components  of  the  validation  assessment  over 
nine days between 21 - 29th July 2010.  
 
During the field visit the validation team spent 2 days at the OFI Pangkalan Bun 
office  going  over  the  documentation  and  approach.  A  half  day  meeting  with  
relevant organizational stakeholders was also conducted. Five days were spent 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 7 
in the project area visiting four villages (Telaga Pulang, Jahitan, Muara Dua and 
Tanjung Hanau) and taking measurements within two transects (No. 1 and 8). 
 
Following  the  initial  assessment  and  field  audit  28  Non-Conformity  Reports 
(NCR), 9   Opportunities   for   Improvement   (OFI) and 19 New   Information   
Requests  (NIR) were  issued  that  the  project  proponent  were  required  to  
respond  to;  this  final  report,  therefore,  represents  the  final report  based  on  
the satisfactory response to the identified . 
 
2.1 Review of Document 
The  following  client documents were  reviewed  for  conformance  against  the  
various  elements  of  the  VCS  2007.1,  relevant  VCS  Program  Updates  and the 
selected methodology: 
 
1. PD -   Rimba   Raya   Biodiversity   Conservation   Project,   Project   Document, 
Voluntary  Carbon  Standard  v2007.1  (Nov  2008)  Infinite  Earth  May  15, 2011. 
(and supporting Annexes) 
Annex 1a Carbon Survey Report – Transects T1-T6 
Annex 1b Carbon Survey Report – Additional Transect T7, T8 
Annex 2a Land Cover Classification 
Annex 2b Land Cover Accuracy Assessment 
Annex 3 Rimba Raya Fire Management Plan 
Annex 4 Land License Supporting Documents 
Annex 5a Carbon Survey SOP 
Annex 5b Forest Patrol SOP 
Annex 6 QA/QC Plan 
Annex 7 Monitoring Plan 
Annex 8a Baseline Calculations 
Annex 8b Baseline Report 
Annex  9  Econometrics  Model  demonstrating  no  Activity  Shifting  or  Market  
Leakage 
Annex 10 Environmental Impact Assessment Summary Conclusions 
Annex 11 Community Surveys, Engagement, Education & Support Documents 
 
2. Final Baseline GHG Emission Estimates for the Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve 
Project May 15, 2011 ( and supporting Annexes) 
Annex 1 Bolick 2010a, Landcover Assessment for Rimba Raya February 5, 2010 
Annex 2  Bolick  2010b,  Accuracy  Assessment  2009  Landcover  Classification  
Rimba Raya August, 2010 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 8 
Annex  3  Bolick  2010c,  Field  Report  to  Infinite  Earth:  Rimba  Raya  Carbon  
Assessment Survey July 18, 2009 and Bolick 2010d, Additional Transects 7 & 8 
Rimba Raya Carbon Assessment Survey August 5 - September 1, 2009 
Annex 4 Additionality Support Documents 
Annex 5 Econometrics argument on Leakage 
Annex 6 Non-Permanence Risk Buffer Assessment 
Annex 7 Baseline Calculations 
 
3. Rimba  Raya  Biodiversity  Reserve  Project  Monitoring  Plan  April  2009  (Revised  
2011) (and supporting Annexes) 
Annex 1  FMEA & Control Plan 
Annex 2  Fire Plan & Community Involvement 
 
4. Baseline Calculations for Rimba Raya 2011.05.15 (spreadsheet) 
 
5. VM0004 - Methodology for Conservation Projects that Avoid Planned Land Use 
Conversion in Peat Swamp Forests.Version 1.0 
 
6. Dwiastuti,  S.,  Hut,  M.,  Si  IR.  Untung  Darung,  MP  Ube  Tito,  Sp  Jenne,  S.  Hut.  
2010  Final  Report  Measurement  of  The  Peat  Bulk  Density  PT.  Rimba  Raya  
Conservation  Seruyan  Regency  of  Central  Kalimantan,  Indonesia.  September  
2010. 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 9 
2.2 Follow-up Interviews 
Personnel  spoken  to  in  the  course  of  this  validation  that  provided  important  
information include: 
 
Infinite Earth/PT. Rimba Raya Conservation (RRC) 
Todd Lemons - Chairman and CEO 
Jim Procanik - Managing Director - Asia 
Leslie Bolick - Science and Technical Director 
Jeff Reece - President  
Hartjahjo Ariawan - RRC Community Relations Coordinator 
 
Forest Carbon 
Scott Stanley - Managing Director 
Gabriel Eickhoff - Director 
 
Orangutan Foundation International 
Dr. Birute Galdikas - Founder 
Fajar Dewanto - OFI manager  
Robert Yappi - GIS manager 
 
World Education 
Handoko Widagdo - Acting Country Representative  
 
 
Staff from Tanjung Puting National Park 
 
Handi Nasoka - Head of Section II, Kuala Pembuang 
M. Taufik - Staff of Section II 
Supriyanto - Head of Section I, Pembuang Hulu 
Toto Sutiyoso - Administration Head of TPNP Office 
 
Forestry & Plantation District Office (FPDO) of Seruyan: 
Ir. Priyo Widagdo - Head of FPDO Seruyan 
Heri Purnomo - FPDO Staff 
 
BKSDA: 
Ir. Eko Novi - Head of BKSDA Section II Kotawaringin Barat 
Sunaryo - BKSDA Staff 
 
2.3 Resolution of any Material Discrepancy 
A  number  of  NIRs  were  issued  prior  to  the  field  visit  to  assist  the  validator  in 
understanding  the  linkages  between  the  documents provided  by  the  project  
proponent prior  to  the  field  trip.  This  assisted  in  effective  use  of  the  time  in  the  
field.  Following  the  field  visit  a  number  of  NCRs  were  raised.  The  approach  to  
resolving  them  was  primarily  through  phone  and  email  conversations  with  the  
project    proponent    and    their    consultants    and    project    partners.    These    

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 10 
communications  focused  on  clarification  around  the issued Non-Conformance 
Reports  and  New  Information  Requests.  Additional  guidance  was  also  sort  from  
the  VCS  where  applicable.  In  many  cases  the  project  proponent  revised  and  
resubmitted   versions   of   the   documentation,   in   particular   the   VCS   project   
document,  the  Baseline  Report  and  the  Monitoring  Report.  This  communicative  
and  review  process  continued  until  the  queries  related  to  the  project  elements  
were in conformance with the selected methodology and the VCS 2007.1.  
 
Finally new versions of the PD and supporting documents were issued.  
 
3 Validation Findings 
3.1 Project Design 
3.1.1   The project title, purposes and objectives 
The  project  title  is  clearly  listed  as  “The  Rimba  Raya  Biodiversity  Reserve  Project” 
under  Section  1.1  of  the  PD.  The aims  and  visions  of  the  Project  are  discussed.  
Section 1.4 of the PD states that the aims of the Project are to reduce Indonesia's 
emissions   from   through   the   preservation   of   peat   swamp   forests   and   to   
demonstrate  that  protecting  endangered  peat  swamp  forest  is  commercially,  
socially and environmentally advantageous. The InfiniteEARTH vision is to develop 
a project that harnesses the global carbon market in order to successfully compete 
with commercial agricultural interests in order to provide social and environmental 
benefits  that  would  not  otherwise  be  attainable.  InfiniteEARTH  is  determined  to  
create  an  operational,  voluntary  market  and  community  involvement  model  that  
can  be  replicated  in  peat  swamp  forest  ecosystems  across  Indonesia  for  decades  
to come. 
 
Conformance:    Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.2   Type/eligibility of GHG project 
The  type  of  project  is  clearly  defined  in  Section  1.2  of  the  PD  as  Reducing  
Emissions  from  Deforestation  and  Degradation  (REDD)  through  Avoided  Planned  
Deforestation (APD). This Project is an eligible AFOLU activity under the VCS2007.1 
standard. The PD clearly states that the Project is a single, standalone project, not 
a grouped project. 
 
Conformance:    Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 11 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.3   Project Location 
The   Rimba   Raya   Carbon   Accounting   Area   comprises   47,237   hectares   of   
uninhabited  lowland  peat  swamp  forest  located  in  Seruyan  Hilir  District,  Danau  
Sembuluh  and  Hanau,  Seruyan  Regency,  in  the  province  of  Central  Kalimantan,  
Indonesia. In accordance with the methodology the project boundary was defined 
at  the  beginning  of  a  proposed  project  activity  and  is  presented  in  a  number  of  
figures in Section 1.5 of the PD. The figures depicting the project boundary provide 
the   geographical   coordinates   of   lands   to   be   included,   so   as   to   allow   clear   
identification for the purpose of verification. Remotely sensed data with adequate 
spatial  resolution  and  land  administration/planning  maps  are  used  that  provide  a  
clear  delineation  of  the  project  boundary.  The  data  is  geo-referenced,  and  was 
provided in digital (KML) format.  
 
Section 2.4 of the PD explains that the project boundary (carbon accounting area), 
comprises  47,237  hectares  and  is  situated  within  the  western  Seruyan  River  
watershed. It also states that the carbon accounting area is protected by a 91,215 
hectare  Project  Management  Zone  which  has  been  defined  in  the  west  by  the  
boundary of the Tanjung Puting National Park, in the east by the Seruyan River and 
in  the  south  by  the  Java  Sea.  The  latter  two  of  these  form  the  eastern  and  
southern   hydrologic   boundaries   of   the   Project.   To   the   north   the   Project   
Management Zone boundary is defined by the oil palm plantation boundaries. The 
carbon accounting area boundary is drawn down 3km in accordance with eligibility 
condition K of the selected methodology.  
 
The  carbon  accounting  area  is  described  as  uninhabited  lowland  peat  swamp  
forest  located  in  Seruyan  Hilir  District,  Danau  Sembuluh  and  Hanau,  Seruyan  
Regency,  in  the  province  of  Central  Kalimantan,  Indonesia.  The  latitude  and  
longitude  of  the  Project  Management  Zone  is  said  to  lie  between  112°01'12  "- 
112°28'12"   east   longitude   and   02°31'48"-   03°21'00"   south   latitude,   which   is   
consistent  with  the  maps  provided.  The  maps  provided  have  appropriate  scales  
and  the  boundaries  of  both  the  Project  Management  Zone  and  the  Carbon  
Accounting  Area  are  clearly  defined.  During  the  field  validation  component,  GIS 
spot  points  taken  at  various  points  near  the  boundary  and  within transects 
correlated to the maps provided. 
 
The shape of the project boundary (in particular the encroachment of the palm oil) 
was consistent with what was seen during the field trip.  
 
The requirement  of  the  standard  to  view the  original  GIS  files  used  to  make  the  
project maps  and  assess  the  accuracy  of  the  mapping  process  was  assessed  and  
considered appropriate and consistent with the written descriptions provided.     
 
Conformance:    Yes  No  N/A    

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 12 
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS 2010.24   
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI VCS2010.37 
 
3.1.4   Technology Used 
Section  1.9  of  the  PD  details  the  technologies,  products  and  services  that  the  
Project  utilizes.  These  include  carbon  stock  assessment,  aerial  imagery  collection,  
field patrols and fire prevention infrastructure and patrols. These technologies are 
relevant  for  the  type  of  project  represented.  This  section  clearly  describes  the  
considerable  resources  coordinated  between  InfiniteEARTH (IE) and Orangutan 
Foundation  International  (OFI)  in  the  design  and  implementation  of  field  patrol  
teams   and   the   required   infrastructure   to   monitor   the   region   for   fire   and   
deforestation.  Three  of  the  field  posts  were  visited  during  the  field  visit.  From  
these  posts  the  extensive  forest  degradation  as  a  result  of  many  years  of  shifting  
agriculture  was  evident  in  the  Rimba  Raya  area.  Historically,  patrols  have  been  
funded   by   OFI   and   reliant   on   donations   to   this   organization. It was not 
immediately  clear  how  effective  these  patrols  have  been  in  completely stopping 
the  forest  degradation  threats  or  ‘illegal  conversion’  of  palm  oil  encroachment 
within  the  boundaries  of  the  project  area.  In  fact  the  project  team  conceded  that  
the  funding  and  resources  to  patrol  the  entire  area  have  not  been  completely  
adequate, which supports the additionality of the Project. The effectiveness of this 
approach under  the  new  funding  regime  will  be  monitored  through  the  forest  
monitoring plan. 
 
Conformance:    Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
  
3.1.5   Project Duration, Crediting Time and Project Start Date 
Section  1.6  of the PD specifies that the project  start  date  was  1
st
 November 2008 
which corresponds to the initiation of the Indonesian Government process for the 
granting  of  an  Ecosystem  Restoration  concession license  for  the  project  area  and 
confirmation   that   there   are   no   conflicting   recognized   claims   to   the   Carbon   
Accounting   Area.   This   date   is   adequately   justified   and   indicates   a   financial   
commitment being made to the Project at this time.  
 
Section 1.6  of  the  PD  also  states  that  the  crediting  period  start  date  is  June  1
st
, 
2009  which  coincides  with  the  commencement  of  field  patrols  for  the  baseline 
assessment, following stratification of the project area and GIS and remote sensing 
analysis of project conditions which began in January 2009. This is consistent with 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 13 
the standards requirement that the project  crediting  period  start  date  can  be  the 
date  on  which  the  first  monitoring  period  commences.  The  field  report  which 
outlines  the  commencement  of  the  baseline  assessment  is  Annex  5A  to  the  PD  
namely:   OFI  Field  Report  -  Field  Report  to  Infinite  Earth  –  Rimba  Raya  Carbon  
Assessment Survey 2009,  dated 22
nd
 June – 24
th
 July 2009.  
 
Section 1.6 states the credit period start date as July 1
st
, 2009   The VCS crediting 
period is specified as 30 years. 
 
Conformance:    Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS 2010.1  
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS 2010.25  
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.6   Ownership / Proof of Title / Rights of Use 
Section  8.1  of  the  PD  lists  the  major  milestones  that  are  required  to  achieve  an  
Ecosystem  Restoration  Concession  (ERC)  in  Indonesia  (also  outlined  in  Section  1.10  
of the PD). Section 8.1 and Appendix 12a also provides evidence that the allocation 
of  such  a  Concession  embodies  the  right  of  use  and  carbon  rights  to  the  specified  
project area. Section 8.1 of the PD and related Annexes and documents cited by the 
validator demonstrate that the milestones that have been completed to achieve the 
ERC  have  been  achieved  in  accordance  with  Table  27.  The  process  has  not  yet  fully  
completed,  with  the  final  map  and  decree  from  the  Minster  still  outstanding.  Given 
this, the project proponent is not able to demonstrate that the project area is under 
their control at the time of validation.  
 
In the absence of the project proponent being able to demonstrate control over the 
project  area,  the  VCS  2011  provides  additional  guidance  which  was  considered  
during this validation. The text of the standard states: “The  project  proponent  shall  
demonstrate control over the entire project area with proof of title with respect to 
one or more rights of use accorded to the project proponent as set out in the VCS 
Standard, noting the following:  
 
1) The entire project area shall be under the control of the project proponent at the 
time of validation, or shall  come  to  be  under  the  control  of  the  project  proponent  
by  the  first  verification  event.  Where  the  project  proponent  does  not  yet  have  
control over the entire area at validation, the entire project area is to be validated 
as if it were under control and the project is ready to be implemented. Where less 
than  80  percent  of  the  total  proposed  area  of  the  project  is  under  current  control  
at validation, the following applies:  
 
a) It shall be demonstrated that the result of the additionality test is applicable to 
the  project  area  at  the  time  of  validation  and  to  the  entire  project  area  to  come  
under control in the future.  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 14 
b) The monitoring plan shall be designed such that it is flexible enough to deal with 
changes in the size of the project.  
c)  The  project  shall  be  verified  within  five  years  of  validation.  At  verification,  the  
size of the project becomes fixed.  
d) Where the area fixed at verification is smaller than intended at validation, areas 
that at verification have not come under control of the project shall be considered 
in the leakage management, mitigation and accounting. This requires the selection, 
at  validation,  of  a  methodology  with  appropriate  leakage  methods  that  may  be  
used in the event the entire area does not come under control of the project. “ 
 
It  is  the  validators  opinion  that  in  the  absence  of  demonstrating  control  over  the  
project  area  at  the  time  of  validation  through  the  finalisation  and  granting  of  the   
ERC  licence,  the  guidance  presented  in  the  VCS  2011  standard  is  relevant  to  this  
project and should apply. As no credits are issued at validation and credits can only 
be  issued  at  verification  once  the  project  can  demonstrate  that  the  project  area  is  
under their control, validation at this point does not pose a risk to the VCS program. 
The  project  has  demonstrated  that  it  will  be  able  to  conform  to  the  VCS  2011  
requirements  and  be  able  to  adjust  the  project  accordingly  in  its  pursuit  of  control  
over the project area, which is consistent with the requirements of VCS 2011.   
 
Conformance:    Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.1  
NCR VCS2010.2  
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS2010.26  
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.7   Double counting  
Section 8.2 of the PD states 'Not Applicable' to which the validator agrees as there 
is no national level commitments in Indonesia 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.8   Description of how the project will achieve GHG reductions/removals 
Section  1.8  of  the  PD  states  that  the  Rimba  Raya  Reserve  Project  will  achieve  
greenhouse   gas   emissions    reductions    through    the    avoidance    of    planned 
deforestation of peat swamp forest and subsequent conversion to palm oil within 
the Carbon Accounting Area.  The Project will diverge from the baseline emissions 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 15 
scenario by obtaining and holding legal land tenure rights to the area for the sole 
purpose  of  ecosystem  restoration.  This  will  avert  the  planned  forest  clearing  and  
peat  land  draining  expected  in  the  business  as  usual  (BAU)  scenario  and  thus  
mitigate  the  associated  emissions  resulting  from  those  activities.  The  integrity  of  
existing  aboveground  and  belowground  carbon  will  be  maintained  through  a  
combination of fire prevention, forest conservation, and community development 
interventions to reduce remaining local level demands on forest resources. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.9   Project  applicability  to  the  VCS  for  projects  rejected  under  other  GHG  
programme (if applicable) 
This  project  has  not  been  rejected  from  any  other  GHG  program.  This  project  is  
undergoing   validation   against   the   CCB   standard   concurrently   with   this   VCS 
validation. This project type is applicable under both standards. 
 
The  Indonesian  Government  does  not  have  a  National  program  or  obligation  to  
which such projects contribute to National commitments.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.10 Eligibility to the VCS 
This  project  is  classified  as  Reducing  Emissions  from  Deforestation  and  Degradation  
(REDD)  through  Avoided  Planned  Deforestation  (APD).  Within  Indonesia  Palm  Oil  is 
currently classified  as  an  Agricultural  crop.  Therefore  the  process  for  converting  
native forest to palm oil is a deforestation event with forest land being converted to 
agricultural land by definition.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 16 
 
3.1.11 Chronological plan for project initiation and monitoring 
Section 7 of the PD outlines the project activities and Implementation Schedule. This 
schedule lists activities from March 2008 until December 2039. The schedule details 
the  project  phase,  the  event  or  milestone,  the  activity  description  /relevant,  start  
and  finish  date,  status  and  responsibility.  This  format  is  consistent  with  the  VCS  
guidelines  for  implementation  and  monitoring.  The  activities  listed  as  completed  
appear  to  match  evidence  provided and was  consistent  with  activities  that  were  
seen  to  have  taken  place  on  the  ground during  the  field  validation  component. 
Whilst the schedule presents project implementation activities it does not integrate 
the  present  monitoring  activities.  The  schedule  of  monitoring  activities  is  presented  
in Section 3, Table 5.         
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI 2010.45  
 
3.1.12 Roles and responsibilities 
The roles and responsibilities of the project proponent and associates are presented 
in  Section  1.15.  In  this  section  the  entity,  their  description  and  their  function  in  the  
Project is clearly listed.  
 
InfiniteEARTH  is  listed  as  the  project  proponent  who  is  responsible  for  the  design  
and implementation of the Project via its registered business entity in Indonesia, PT. 
Rimba   Raya   Conservation.   Other   project   associates   are   listed   as   Orangutan 
Foundation  International  (OFI),  Forest  Carbon,  Winrock  International,  PT  Daemeter  
Consulting,  World  Education,  Potters  for  Peace,  MBK,  and Health  in  Harmony.  The 
large number of associates are specialists in a range of areas and appear to have the 
skills  and  resources  to  implement  the  range  of  monitoring  and  project  activities  
presented in the PD. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.1.13 Compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
Section  1.10  of  the  PD  provides  a  commitment  of  the  project  proponent  to  be  in  
compliance  with  relevant  International,  national  and  local  laws  and  regulations.    
These include laws and regulations that cover employment, project implementation, 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 17 
REDD,  fire  management,  and  carbon  rights  ownership.  The  National  representative  
on the audit team confirmed that those listed appear to be a full list of relevant laws 
and regulations. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
  
3.2 Baseline 
3.2.1   Conditions prior to project initiation 
Section   1.7   of   the   PD   adequately   describes   the   climate,   hydrology,   geology,   
topography,  soils,  biodiversity,  vegetation  and  land  use/land  cover  of  the  project  
location. Several maps are included in this section in support of the text. 
 
The land cover and vegetative cover maps presented were developed from fieldwork 
and satellite  imagery.  Land  use  is  described  in  detail  in  this  section  stating  that  the  
area was   legally   zoned   for   commercial   timber   production   and   conversion   to   
agricultural  production.  The  agent  of  deforestation  is described  as  large  Palm  Oil  
companies.  This  section  also  describes  a  more  passive  threat  to  the  forest  from  the  
local communities along the Seryan river who have a long history of dependence on 
the forest and river system to provide fuel wood and timber for housing. Fuel wood 
is reportedly on a subsistence level by the local communities through the collection 
of  deadwood  from  secondary  forests  on  the  borders  of  villages. The  communities  
have  also  utilized the  land  along  the  river  for  traditional  swidden  agricultural  
practices where fire is used as a tool for clearing peat swamp forest land. Evidence of 
this  practice (i.e. large  cleared areas  along  the  river) was  seen  during  the  field  
validation. 
 
Data  and  information  about  the  community  use  of  the  forest  and  agricultural  
practices  was  collected  by  the  project  proponent  and  is  presented  in  Annex  10  – 
Environmental Impact Assessment    Summary    Conclusions    and    Annex    11    – 
Community  Surveys,  Engagement,  Education  &  Support  Documents.  The  complete  
EIA  conducted  for  the  Project  was  cited  by  the  validators  in  the  OFI  offices  on  the  
field  trip.  This  two  volume  document  was  written  in  Bahasa.  A  summary  of  the  
impacts was provided in the VCS PD and the CCB PDD.       
 
The  findings  reported  in  the  documentation  were  consistent  with  the  findings  that  
the  validators  determined  through  conversations  with  communities  during  the  field  
visits.  
 
The conditions that persisted prior to the Project  are  common  for  the  region.  Large  
tracts  of  peat  swamp  forest  have  been  cleared  for  the  establishment  of  palm  oil  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 18 
plantations which border  the  project  area.  The  validation  team  drove  through  
extensive areas of palm oil of varying age classes to arrive at the project boundary. 
 
Section 2.4 of the PD states that the most likely baseline scenario was determined by 
applying  the  “Combined  tool  to  identify  the  baseline  scenario  and  demonstrate  
additionality in A/R CDM Project Activities which is consistent with the requirements 
of the selected methodology and the standard.  
 
Of  the  alternative  scenarios  considered,  complete  conversion  of  the  peat  swamp  
forest to palm oil plantations was identified as most likely to occur in the absence of 
the Project,  and  was  therefore  chosen  as  the  baseline  scenario.  The  evidence  
presented  to  the  validator  strongly  supported  this  baseline  scenario.  This baseline 
scenario conforms   to   the   eligibility   requirements   as   set   out   in   the   selected   
methodology. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None     
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI VCS2010.40  
     
3.2.2   Approval of the baseline methodology 
The baseline methodology selected follows the approved VCS methodology element 
VM0004 –  Methodology  for  Conservation  Projects  that  Avoid  Planned  Land  Use  
Conversion   in   Peat   Swamp   Forests,   Version   1.0   available   at   http://www.v-c-
s.org/docs/VM0004%20Methodology%20for%20Conservation%20Projects%20that%
20Avoid%20Planned%20Land%20Use%20Conversion%20in%20Peat%20Swamp%20F
orests,%20v1-0.pdf  
 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.4  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
  
3.2.3   Application of methodology revisions or deviations (if applicable) 
Section  4.3.2.1  and  Section  4.5  describe  some  deviations  from  the  methodology  as  
follows: 
 
“There  were  deviations  in  the  Aerial  Image  Method  (AIM)  steps  of  the  baseline  
calculations, which are detailed in Figure 29. Briefly, equations 23, 24 and 25 reflect 
a deviation in tree height and crown area field measurements, neither of which was 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 19 
used in direct biomass estimation. Tree biomass was estimated using the Broadbent 
et  al.  (2008)  regression  equation  (deviation  in  Eq.  28 and  Eq.  30)  using  tree  crown  
areas  digitized  in  virtual  plots.  This  model  performed  better  than  the  allometric  
model  using  DBH  parameters.Biomass  estimates  were  then  adjusted  downward  to  
match  ground‐based  biomass  estimates,  which  are  lower  than  IPCC  default  values  
for tropical moist forest and are considered conservative. 
Further,  all  aboveground  biomass  contributes  <3%  to  total  carbon  stocks  in  Rimba  
Raya’s peat‐dominated area.” 
 
 
The  description  provided  by  the  project  proponent  describes  a  variation  in  the 
approach  taken  from  that  strictly  described  in  the  methodology,  rather  than  a  
deviation. This variation led to a more conservative estimation given that the project 
proponent   took   a   further   confidence   deduction   which   was   equivalent   to   the   
variation between estimated biomass and measured biomass. This approach appears 
to  be  conservative  and  consistent  with  the  approach  described  in  the  selected  
methodology.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.12  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.2.4   Conformance with methodology applicability criteria  
The  justification  for  the  application  of  the  selected  methodology  is  described  in  
Section   2.2.   The   methodology   has   ten   (10) applicability criteria.   The   project 
proponent  provided  adequate  justification  or  supporting  evidence  to  demonstrate  
compliance with all ten applicability criteria.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS 2010.5 
     NCR VCS 2010.54  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.2.5   Correct application of the baseline methodology 
The baseline methodology has been correctly applied by the project proponent and 
is detailed in a number of sections of the PD including Section 2.5 and Section 4.2 of 
the  PD.  The  Rimba  Raya  Baseline  Report    document  also  present  in  detail  the  
projects  approach  to  implementing  field  work  and  spatial  analysis  techniques  to  
establishing the baseline which are consistent with the requirements of the selected 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 20 
methodology.  The  specific  methodology  requirements  for  the  baseline  are  covered  
in more detail in Sections 3.2.6 and 3.4.3 of this validation report.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.45 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.2.6   Appropriate setting of the baseline scenario 
The VCS standard has a number of specific requirements for the setting of baselines 
as stated in the VCS Tool for AFOLU Methodological Issues; Step 4. Those that relate 
to  REDD  projects  cover  two  main  components:  land-use  and  land-cover  (LU/LC)  
change and (ii) the associated carbon stock change component.  
 
Requirements that should be specifically presented in the PD for projects that avoid 
planned  deforestation  (APD)  are  listed  in  the  following  table  alongside  the  relevant  
validation findings. 
 
VCS Baseline Requirements Finding 
Project      documentation      must      clearly      
demonstrate   that   the   land   would   have   
been converted to non-forest use if not for 
the  REDD  project  (i.e.  clear  demonstration  
of  the  Project’s  additionality).  The  project  
developer must provide verifiable evidence 
to demonstrate that, based on government 
and  landowner-planned  land  use  changes,  
the   project   area   was   intended   to   be   
cleared. 
Figure 3 - Planned and Active Oil Palm 
Concessions in and around the Project 
Management   Zone   and   Figure   4   - 
Central Kalimantan Spatial Plan clearly 
show    that    the    project    boundaries    
correspond to areas that are identified 
for conversion to Palm Oil. 
The  annual  rate  of  forest  conversion  shall  
be  based  on  the  common  practice  in  the  
area—i.e.   how   much   forest   is   typically   
cleared    each    year    by    similar    baseline    
activities. 
Table  8:  Land  conversion  rate  in  17  oil  
palm   estates   near   the   Rimba   Raya   
project  area  presented  in  Section  4.2  
of  the  PD  presents  actual  clearance  
rates  for  the  typical  baseline  activity  
from     which     an     annual     average     
estimate is  conservatively drawn.  
If  it  is  common  practice  in  the  area  for  
timber to be removed before clearing, then 
the  amount  of  carbon  that  ended  up  in  
long-lived     wood     products     must     be     
estimated  and  deducted  from  the  baseline  
emissions   estimates   (subject   to   the   de   
minimis rule of 5%).  
Section   4.2 of   the   PD   outlines   The   
calculation  approach  presented  in  the  
PD   and   the   supporting   spreadsheet   
calculations   take   into   consideration   
the   storage   of   carbon   in   long-lived 
wood products. These calculations are 
conducted in   accordance   with   the   
selected methodology and were found 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 21 
to be de minimis. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI VCS2010.40 
 
3.2.7   Demonstration of additionality 
Section  2.5  of  the  PD  outlines  the  approach  to  demonstrating  additionality.  In 
accordance  with  the  selected  methodology the current  version  of  the  VCS  “Tool  for  
the Demonstration and Assessment of Additionality in VCS Agriculture, Forestry and 
Other  Land  Use  (AFOLU)  project  activities  are applied  correctly  to  demonstrate  
additionality.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.45 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.3 Monitoring Plan 
3.3.1   Approval of the monitoring methodology 
The   monitoring   methodology   selected   follows   the   approved   VCS   methodology   
element VM0004 – Methodology for Conservation Projects that Avoid Planned Land 
Use  Conversion  in  Peat  Swamp  Forests,  Version  1.0  available  at  http://www.v-c-
s.org/docs/VM0004%20Methodology%20for%20Conservation%20Projects%20that%
20Avoid%20Planned%20Land%20Use%20Conversion%20in%20Peat%20Swamp%20F
orests,%20v1-0.pdf  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   see NCR VCS2010.4  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
  
3.3.2   Correct application and justification of selected monitoring methodology 
The  monitoring  methodology  outlines  methods  for  monitoring  land  use  change,  
forest  degradation  and  carbon  pools  and  includes  methods  for  monitoring  four  
elements (Section 15, page 67 of VM0004).  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 22 
 
Section  3.2 of  the  PD  explains  that  the  monitoring  activities  will  consist  of  remote  
sensing and GIS analysis, routine field patrols and direct field sampling. 
 
The monitoring requirements are outlined in more detail in Section 3 of the PD. The 
validation  findings  of  VM0004  monitoring elements  are  presented  in  the  following  
table. 
 
Monitoring 
Methodological Steps 
Finding 
Monitoring  the  proposed  
project   activity   including   
the   project   boundary,   a   
buffer  region  surrounding  
the   project   boundary   to   
ensure  against  impacts  of  
outside   drainage   and   all   
activities    that    result    in    
increased  GHG  emissions  
inside the         project         
boundary 
Section  3  provides  details  of  the  activities  that  will  be  
monitored within the project area, including: 
1. Area      where      natural      or      anthropogenic      
disturbances  (including  fire,  illegal  logging  and  
other   land   use   change)   occurred   within   the   
project boundary by date, location, biomass lost 
or  affected,  and  the  preventative  or  curative  
measures, if any implemented  
2. Number  and  location  of  logging  gaps  by  date,  
location,   biomass   lost   or   affected,   and   the   
preventative    or    curative    measures,    if    any    
implemented    Area  and  depth  of  peat  burned  
within   the   project   area   by   date,   location,   
estimated  peat  emissions,  and  the  preventative  
or curative measures, if any implemented  
3. Area of peat, if any, that was drained within the 
project  boundary  by  date,  location,  estimated  
peat emissions, and the preventative or curative 
measures, if any implemented  
4. Information on forest protection practices 
5. Monitoring      will      be      conducted      with      a      
combination    of    satellite    imagery    and    field    
patrols.   This   approach   is   consistent   with   the 
requirements of the selected methodology. 
Actual  net  GHG  emissions  
including       changes       in       
carbon   stocks   in   above-
ground     biomass,     peat     
emissions 
Section   3.4   describes   in   detail   approaches   that   are   
consistent    with    the    selected    methodology.    The    
approach  to  estimating actual  net  GHG  emissions  in  
aboveground   biomass   and   peat   are   defined.   This   
process includes: 
1. Sampling design and stratification  
2. Monitoring  of  the  boundary  of  the  proposed  
project activity  
3. Monitoring    of    forest    protection    activities: 
including forest  fires,  logging  gaps,  new  canals,  
biomass loss from logging.  
4. Calculation    of    ex    post    baseline    net    GHG    
emissions, if required    

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 23 
5. Data   to   be   collected   and   archived   for   the   
estimation of baseline net GHG emissions 
6. Calculation  of  ex  post  actual  net  GHG  emissions 
avoided 
Leakage           due           to           
displacement of economic 
activities 
The  PD  describes  an  approach  that  is  consistent  with  
the    methodology.    The    only    activity    displacement    
considered  is  the  shifting  of  pre-project  activities  to  
outside  the  project  boundary.  In  accordance  with  the  
VCS  and  the  selected methodology,  the  PD  states  that  
the  Activity  S
hifting  leakage  shall  be  assessed  for  five  
full  years  beyond  the  date  at  which  deforestation  was  
projected  to  occur  in  the  baseline.  The  PD  describes  a  
multilayer    approach    to    determining    leakage    from    
displaced economic activities that is consistent with the 
general  requirements  of  the  standard  and  the  specific  
approaches described in the selected methodology.  
 
A  QA/QC  plan,  including  
field  measurements  data  
collection         verification,         
data  entry  and  archiving  
to  ensure  the  integrity  of  
the data collected. 
Section    3.2    refers    to    the    QA/QC    plan    for    data    
management  and  references  Annex  6  QA/QC  Plan.  This  
plan    discusses    the    projects    approach    to    quality 
assurance    and    quality    control and    is    considered    
adequate considering the complexity of the Project. 
 
Evidence    that    the    Project's    QA/QC    process    is    a    
functioning part of the management of the Project  was 
experienced  by  the  validation  team  during  the  process  
of the third party assessment.     
 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.13  
     NCR VCS2010.47 
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS2010.30  
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.3.3   Conformance with VCS specific criterion related to monitoring 
Section 5.11 of the VCS 2007.1 specifies some specific monitoring requirements.  The 
validation  findings  of  these  specific  requirements  are  presented  in  the  following  
table. 
 
VCS Required Monitoring Procedures Finding 
Specification   of   the   purpose   of   the   
monitoring 
Section  3.2  of  the  PD  states  “The  purpose  
of    monitoring    is    to    ensure    that    the    
estimates  of  GHG  removals  presented  in  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 24 
the  Project  Document  are  being  met,  and  
to  identify  and  account  for  any  unplanned 
reductions   in   project   carbon   stocks   or   
increase  in  project  emissions  or  possible  
leakage outside the project boundary.” 
Types  of  data  and  information  to  be  
reported – including      units      of      
measurement 
Section 3.4 of the PD outlines the data and 
their units that will be captured during the 
implementation   of   the   monitoring   plan.   
The list of data was found to be consistent 
with     those     listed     in     the     selected 
methodology. 
Monitoring   methodologies,   including   
estimation, modeling, measurement or 
calculation approaches 
Section  3.4  lists  monitoring  methodologies 
and  the  calculation  approaches  that  are 
consistent  with  the  requirements  of the 
selected methodology.  
Monitoring       times       and       period,       
considering  the  needs  of  the  intended  
users 
Table  5  adequately  lists  the  monitoring, 
reporting   and   verification   activities   and 
frequencies. 
Monitoring roles and responsibilities Monitoring  roles  and  responsibilities  are  
adequately outlined in Section 3.4. 
GHG    information    and    management    
systems,      including      location      and      
retention of stored data 
Section 3.2.8 of the PD provides details on 
the Project'
s  approach  to  managing  data  
quality,  storage  and  access.  This  section  
states two locations where the data will be 
stored. These locations are consistent with 
offices of the project proponent.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.46 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
 
3.3.4   Collection and archiving of all relevant data 
The data and parameters to be monitored are detailed in Section 3.3 of the PD. The 
28  parameters  listed  in  the  data  tables  include  all  relevant  parameters  for  the  
monitoring  methodological  pathways  selected.  The  tables  provide  transparent  and  
relevant details  regarding  the  collection/selection  of  various  parameters,  the  values  
used and the sources of such data. 
 
In accordance with the Voluntary Carbon Standard 2007.1 section 5.13, the Project 
Proponent has made a commitment to store all project data in a secure and 
retrievable manner for at least two years after the end of the project crediting 
period. Project data will be stored and regularly maintained on redundant external 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 25 
hard drives at onsite (Pangkalan Bun) and offsite (Jakarta) locations and secured with 
backup software using standard protocols. Data storage locations are listed as  
 
Onsite data storage 
Jl. Hasanudin, No. 10 Blk 
Pangakalan Bun Kalimantan Tengah, 74111  
Phone: 0532 24778 
Fax: 0532 27506 
 
Offsite data storage 
Mayapada Tower, 11th Floor 
Jl. Jenderal Sudirman Kav.28, 
Jakarta Selatan, 12920 
Tel: +62-21-5289-7446 
Fax: +62-21-5289-7399 
 
Section   3.2.8   of   the   PD   explains   the   key   data   storage,   access   and   storage   
requirements for the project. The client provided a final version of their QA/QC plan 
which adequately covered the expected components of such a plan.  
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR 2010.46    
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS2010.32 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.3.5   The  frequency,  responsibility  and  authority  for  registration,  monitoring,  
measurement and reporting activities 
Section   3.2   of   the   PD   adequately   describes   the   frequency,   responsibility   and   
authority for registration, monitoring, measurement and reporting activities. Section 
1.14  provides   more   specific   descriptions   on   the  roles  and  responsibilities   and 
presents information on the responsibility for relevant project activities.  This detail 
was  found  to  be  consistent  with  the  project  implementation  requirements  of  
selected methodology and the standard. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None     
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
. 
3.4 Calculation of GHG Emissions 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 26 
3.4.1   The appropriateness of the source, sink and reservoir 
The  methodology  outlines  that  the  selected  carbon  pools  are:    above-ground  tree  
biomass, aboveground non-tree biomass, peat and wood products.  
 
The  methodology  states  that  these  pools  are  'major  carbon  pool  subject  to  the  
project activity' and does not specify that these selected pools are 'optional'. 
 
The  selected  methodology  lists  the  following  carbon  source,  sinks  and  reservoirs  as  
selected/included:  Burning  of  aboveground  biomass  (CH
4 
only),  Peat  oxidation  from  
drainage (CO
2
 only), Burning of peat (CO
2
 and CH
4
) 
 
Section  2.3  of  the  PD  states  that  the  major  carbon  pools  subject  to  the  project  
activity  are  peat  and  aboveground  biomass.  It  states  that  long-lived  wood  products  
are  also  included.  It  states  that  aboveground  non-tree biomass (as well as litter and 
deadwood) is conservatively excluded. The methodology does not explicitly allow for 
the  exclusion  of  the  aboveground  non-tree  biomass  pool  based  on  de  minimus, 
however  this  methodology  was  developed  against  the  VCS  2007.1  and  it  was  not  
explicitly clear that the exclusion of a pool needed to be set out in the methodology.  
 
According  to  the  Tool  for  AFOLU  Methodological  Issues,  which  was  relevant  at  the  
time this methodology was approved, aboveground non-tree biomass is optional for 
REDD projects when the expected baseline scenario is either annual crop or pasture 
grassland.   Where  the  expected  baseline  scenario  is  perennial  tree  crop,  then  the  
aboveground non-wood pool must be included in the project boundary.  
 
The  proponent  estimates  the  aboveground  non-tree  biomass  pool  using  standard  
operating  procedures  as  outlined  in  AR-AM0007.  This  tool  states  that    “The  sum  of  
decreases in carbon pools and increases in emissions that may be neglected shall be 
less than 5% of the total decreases in carbon pools and increases in emissions, or less 
than 5% of net anthropogenic removals by sinks, whichever is lower.”  
 
Non-tree  biomass  was  surveyed  in  150  small  plots  in  the  Project  and  was  found  to  
contribute  3.72  –  5.60%  to  total  aboveground  biomass  representing  <0.5%  of  GHG  
emissions.  Therefore,  this  carbon  pool  was  deemed  to  be  an  insignificant  emission  
and  was  conservatively  excluded  from  Baseline  calculations.  This  assessment  is  
presented in the field biomass survey section of the Rimba Raya Baseline Report. The 
project proponent has demonstrated that the aboveground non-tree biomass pool is 
de  minimus  and  in  conformance  with  VCS  2007.1  Tool  for  AFOLU  Methodological  
Issues. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS 2010.50  
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS 2010.27 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 27 
 
3.4.2   The correctness and transparency of formulas and factors used 
The selected methodology presents 131 individual equations and various calculation 
pathways which the project proponent can apply to determine the net GHG benefits 
of the Project. The PD presents the equations and equation pathway figures from the 
selected methodology in a transparent manner. Section 3.4 (Leakage) and Section 4 
(GHG  Emission  Reductions)  outline  the  equations  used  and  provides  references  to  
the selected methodology. The equations were found to be transparently presented 
and  correctly  presented.  The  calculations  spreadsheet  provided  was  also  found  to  
present  the  equations  as  specified  in  the  PD.  The  spreadsheet  was  presented  in  a  
manner that the validator could assess its correctness and completeness. The factors 
used  were  referenced  and  justified  and  consistently  reported  between  the  PD  and  
the calculation spreadsheet.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.8 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI VCS2010.43 
     OFI VCS2010.44 
 
3.4.3   Calculation of emissions in the baseline scenario (ex-ante) 
Step 4, Section 2.4 of the PD provides a summary of the procedure for calculating ex-
ante  baseline  GHG  emissions  from  the  Project.  It  states  that  the  baseline  GHG  
emissions were estimated based on equations provided in the methodology. It states 
the estimates are based on a combination of site-specific data, high resolution aerial 
images,  remotely  sensed  data  and  IPCC  default  values  from  peer  reviewed  science.  
This section directs the reader to Annex 8b - Baseline Report for more detail. 
 
In  addition,  section  4.1  of  the  PD  states  that  emissions  from  peat  represent  92%  of  
the  total  project  emissions  of  the  baseline  scenario.  This  section  also  lists the three 
main  steps  to  estimating  the  ex-ante  baseline  GHG  emissions  that  are  consistent  
with the selected methodology, namely: 
• Stratification and sampling 
• Estimation of carbon stock changes in above ground biomass 
• Estimation of GHG emissions from peat. 
 
Within the selected methodology Equations 1 – 61 are relevant to the development 
of ex-ante estimations of the baseline scenario. The validation findings of the ex-ante 
baseline estimate are presented in the following table. 
 
Stratification and sampling 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 28 
The  methodology  specifies  a  number  of  steps  to  achieve  stratification.  The  PD  
describes the approach to stratification in Section 4.2.1. The description provided in 
this section is consistent with the steps listed in the methodology.  
 
Stratification Steps 
 
Findings 
 
1.Stratification according to pre-existing conditions and baseline projections  
Define the factors 
influencing carbon stock 
changes in carbon pools. 
Section   4.2.1 of   the   PD   states   that   the   factors   
influencing  carbon  stock  changes  in  the  region  are  oil 
palm  concession  boundaries,  land  cover  type  /  extent  
and  distribution  of  peat
.  This  appears  to  be  adequate  
to define the factors influencing carbon stock changes 
(i.e. forest type and soil type). The oil palm concession 
boundaries  are  also  used  to  determine  the  project  
extent and the timing of conversion. 
Collect relevant maps 
and literature 
concerning key factors 
identified in step 1. 
Section    4.2.1    describes    the    use    of    land    cover    
classification and  palm  oil  concession  boundaries  as 
the  basis of  primary  stratification.  This  section  refers  
the   reader   to   Section   1.7   for   specific   data   on   
stratification   of   the   carbon   accounting   area.   This   
section  provides  land  cover  maps  which  have  been  
developed  by  the  project  proponent  from  LANDSAT  
data 2003/2008 as well as aerial photos taken in 2009. 
The  selected  methodology  states  on  page  11  that,  
'where  baseline  activities  are  expected  to  affect  peat  
reserves  to  a  depth  that  exceeds  the  available  peat  
supply  in  some  areas  of  the  project  boundary,  project  
participants  shall  also  consider  peat  depth  in  their  
stratification  scheme'.   As  the  peat  depth  is  shown  to  
be  greater  than  1  m  
throughout  the  project  area  
where   peat   swamp   forest   is   defined,   the   project   
proponent is not required to stratify by peat depth.   
Undertake a preliminary 
stratification 
Section 1.7 of   the   PD   explains   the   preliminary 
stratification  process.  Existing  hardcopy  maps,  G.I.S.  
data,    Landsat    and    SPOT    satellite    imagery    were    
compiled  and  assessed  for  initial  project  description  
and  stratification  in  January  2009.  A  third  land  cover  
assessment made use of Landsat image interpretation 
combined    with    Ministry of    Forestry    land    cover    
mapping. 
Conduct supplementary 
sampling for site 
specifications in each 
stratum 
The  focus  of  the  stratification  was  using  aerial  images  
and remote sensing.  
 
A  subset  internal validation  process  was  instigated  
through  the  design  of  a  limited  field  survey  which  
focused  on  measuring  biomass  and  peat  depth. The 
location of the field plots were not random but rather 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 29 
based on accessibility. Given the general access issued 
faced by the field teams the locations of the transects 
and  plots  were  considered  adequate  for  the  purpose  
of supplementary sampling.  
 
The PD details that soil type was primarily determined 
from vegetation type  (i.e.  peat  swamp  forest  overlays  
peat, kerangas forest overlays sandy soils and lowland 
forest  overlays  mineral  soils)  and  supplemented  with 
the Wetlands    International    
Peat   map   for   areas   
classified as non-forest. This approach was considered 
appropriate  for  the  conditions  present  on  the  project  
area. 
Do final stratification of 
baseline scenario 
(Distinct strata should 
differ significantly in 
terms of baseline GHG 
emissions) 
Upon  completion  of  the  field  surveys,  remote  sensing  
and  GIS  methods  were  used  to  update  the  land  cover  
classification.  The final identified strata  are  listed  in  
Section  4.2.1  of  the  PD.  A  total  of  8  land  use/land  
cover  strata  are  listed  which  are  distributed  across  4  
palm oil concessions that make up the project area. 
 
Therefore there are 24 strata identified.   
2. Stratification according to the project activity 
Final ex-ante 
stratification 
The  final  ex-ante  stratification  is  presented  in  Section  
4.2.1  Table  15  of  the  PD.  The  area  of  each  strata  are  
consistently  reported  in  the  calculation  spreadsheets  
and other project documentation. 
Leakage stratification Leakage  stratification  was  conducted  in  accordance  
with  the  selected  methodology  and  this  is  clarified  in  
Section  3.5  of  the  PD.  Stratification  is  performed  in  
two  stages:  first  in  accordance  with  Step  3  of  the  
methodology to focus the leakage analysis and then in 
Step    7    of    the    methodology    to    refine    impact    
assessment for carbon stock and emissions changes. 
General Requirements The methodology states that where baseline activities 
are  expected  to  affect  peat  reserves  to  a  depth  that  
exceeds the available peat supply in some areas of the 
project    boundary,    project    participants    shall    also    
consider  peat  depth  in  their  stratification  scheme.  
Stratification  by  peat  depth  is  not  required  by  this  
project due to the considerable depth of peat reserves 
found   in   the   project   area   (circa 3 -   5   m).   The 
methodology  restricts  GHG impacts  on  peat  drainage 
to a depth of 1m. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.6  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 30 
NCR VCS2010.7  
NCR VCS2010.8 
NCR VCS 2010.10 
NCR VCS2010.13 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS2010.28  
NIR VCS2010.29 
NIR VCS2010.31 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI VCS2010.38 
OFI VCS2010.39 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 31 
Estimation  of  carbon  stock  changes  in  above  ground  biomass  and  Estimation  of  
GHG emissions from peat. 
 
Calculations Finding 
Estimation of carbon 
stock changes in 
aboveground biomass 
 
The  key  elements  of  the  selected  methodology  are  
listed and explained. Figures are presented in tables in 
Section 4.2. The reader is also referred to Annex 8a for 
the excel calculations. 
GHG Emissions from 
timber extraction before 
land clearing 
• Estimation of the 
area cleared and 
logged 
• Estimation of 
biomass logged 
Estimation of area cleared and logged 
The  methodology  states  that  the  deforestation  rate  
requires estimation from a valid and verifiable plan by 
the  agent  of  deforestation  for  estimating  the  rate  at  
which  deforestation  and/or  logging  is  projected  to  
occur. The project proponent presents a deforestation 
rate based on historical conversion rates by the agent 
of deforestation within the region of the project area. 
The   proponent   presents   a   linear   average   annual   
conversion  rate  based  on  the  historical  data  collected 
(Table  16/17  of  the  PD).  The  approach  taken  by  the  
proponent  presents  a  valid  estimation  of  the  area  
cleared  (being  the  full  extent  of  the  defined  palm  oil  
concessions)  and  presents  a  valid  conservative  annual  
conversion     rate     which     ultimately     results     in     
conservative baseline emissions.  
 
Estimation of biomass logged 
In  accordance  with  the  methodology  emissions  from  
timber  extraction  are  calculated  as emissions  from  
timber   extraction   minus   carbon   stored   in   wood   
products.  
 
All    tree    species    above    the    minimum    diameter    
threshold    were    assumed    to    be    harvested.    The    
minimum  diameter  was  reported  to  be  30  cm  which  
was  based  on  market  survey  information  collected  by  
BOSF on common practice in the region.   
 
The  biomass  in  the  commercial  component  of  tree  
species  logged  was  estimated  based  on  Mawas  plot  
data. The total biomass of trees larger than the 30 cm 
threshold   was   estimated   based   on   aerial   imagery   
sampling  plots.  Based  on  measurements  of  93  logging  
gaps  in  the  Mawas  project  region,  36%  of  the  total  
aboveground   biomass   per   tree   is   assumed   to   be   
extracted  as  timber,  leaving  64%  of  the  aboveground  
biomass in the forest. 
GHG Emissions from The  approach  to  estimating  emissions  from  biomass  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 32 
biomass burning for land 
clearing 
burning for land clearing appears conformant with the 
selected  methodology  requirements. This   approach   
was  correctly  applied  in  the  calculation  spreadsheets  
to  arrive  and  an  estimate  for  GHG  emissions  form  
biomass burning for land clearing.  
Mean carbon stocks in 
aboveground biomass  
• Estimation of 
mean carbon 
stocks in 
aboveground 
non-tree biomass 
• Estimation of 
mean carbon 
stocks in 
aboveground 
tree biomass 
Mean   Carbon   Stocks   in   Aboveground   Non-Tree 
Biomass 
A small sample of plots were measured by the project 
proponent to demonstrate that aboveground non-tree 
biomass  stock  were  de  minimus  and  was  therefore  
excluded from calculations 
 
Mean Carbon Stocks in Aboveground Tree Biomass 
The   methodology   provides   three   alternatives   for   
measuring aboveground tree biomass. Given the large 
extent and inaccessibility of Rimba Raya’s peat swamp 
forests,  the  Aerial  Image  Method  (AIM)  was  selected  
as  recommended  in  the  methodology  (see  p.  20).  
Methods applied are based on Brown et al. (2005) and 
Slaymaker  (2003)  and  work  was  conducted  by  Forest  
Carbon. 
 
The AIM method consists of nine (9) steps to estimate 
GHG  emissions  from  timber  extraction  before  land  
clearing. 
 
AIM 1.  On  the  ground,  measure  diameter  at  breast  
height  (DBH),  total  tree  height  and  crown  area  of  
individual trees of varying diameters and species found 
within  the  project  region.  Sample  size  should  be  large  
enough  to  capture  the  variability  in  DBH  and  crown  
areas of trees in the project boundary.   
 
The   Rimba   Raya   Baseline   Report   states   that   36   
biomass   plots   (each   of   2500m
2
)   located   along   8   
transects  were  used  for  measurements  of  DBH  of  
trees  >20  cm  DBH  (n=1555)  and  tree  crown  diameter  
(n=340).  Descriptive  statistics  show  that  variability  in  
DBH    and    tree    crown    diameter    was    adequately    
captured. These ground measurements of crown cover 
and DBH where then correlated with analysis of aerial 
imagery.  
 
AIM 2. Create a relationship between a combination of 
the height and/or crown area and the biomass of each 
tree observed. 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 33 
Allometric  relationships  were  created  to  relate  Tree  
Biomass  to  some  combination  of  Tree  Height  (H)  and 
/or  Tree Crown  Area  (A)  from  ground  plot  data.  All  
equation  types  were  tested  using  all  data  and  species
‐specific  models  were  constructed  using  16  of  the  
most  common  species.  Results  of  regression  analysis  
showed  that  tree  species  diversity  and  variation  in  
allometries  limited  the  explanatory  power  of  a  single  
site‐ specific   regression   model   (R2   =   0.379)   .   
Broadbent  et  al  (2008)  conducted  a  similar  exercise  
but  for  a  larger  dataset  in  the  neotropics  for  the  
purpose  of  applying  a  site‐specific  regression  model  
to aerial image data. The Broadbent model represents 
a  good  alternative  to  site‐specific  model  and  was  
applied  as  a  variation in  AIM  Step  2.  In  order  to  
account for possible over‐estimation of biomass, the 
results    were    then    calibrated    to    match    biomass    
estimated from ground‐plot data. Results of biomass 
estimation  were  reduced  over  landcover  classes  by  
22.85%, ensuring a conservative estimate. 
 
AIM   Step   3:   In   a   standard   aircraft,   collect   high   
resolution     (10-15     cm     per     pixel)     imagery     in     
systematically  spaced,  overlapping  parallel  transects  
evenly  distributed  over  the  project  boundary  where  
land cover change is expected to occur. 
 
3,380  high  resolution  photographs  were  taken  over  
Rimba Raya, each one covering approximately 120 ha, 
with  a  focus  on  the  carbon  accounting  area.  Photos  
were  ortho-rectified  in  preparation  for  tree  crown  
assessment. 
  
AIM  Step  4:  Use  software  to  create  overlapping  high  
resolution images  in  each  transect  and  use  the  file‘s  
accuracy  information,  level  and  scale  of  overlapping  
images to create a 3-dimensional stereo view. 
 
ArcGIS  software  was  used  to  view  and  analyze  aerial  
imagery.  2D  aerial  image  files  were  processed  since  
only tree crown (not tree height) was used in biomass 
estimation modeling as allowed by the methodology.  
  
AIM Step 5: Randomly select high resolution images to 
analyze  and  establish  a  virtual  plot  on  each  image  
selected.  The  selection  of  images  should  follow  the  
same  sampling  scheme  as  in  the  selection  of  ground  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 34 
plots.  
 
Virtual plots were established on images in a stratified 
random  manner.1ha  square  plots  were  systematically  
installed  at  the  center  of  each  photo  to  avoid  any  
effects from lens distortion. Sample size, plot size, plot 
location, stratification and accuracy assessment are all 
described in the PD. 
  
AIM  Step  6:  For  each  of  the  selected  plots,  create  a  
feature  project  within  Stereo  Analyst  that  contains  
empty    feature    classes    for    plant    types    (typically    
broadleaf   trees   and   palm   trees   for   closed   canopy   
tropical  forest),  and  import  a  shape  file  of  the  virtual  
plot.  
 
For  each  plot,  tree  crown  areas  were  digitized  using  
standard  and  customized  tools  in  ArcGIS  software.  
Code  was  written  to  run  in  ARCGIS  that  allowed  the  
GIS   operator   to   click   with   the   mouse   on   three   
different  points  of  the  outline  of  each  visible  tree  
crown  and  the  software  would  automatically  create  a  
circle  polygon  using  the  averaged  radius  from  the  
three points. 
 
AIM  Step  7:  Estimate  the  biomass  of  each  tree  in  the  
virtual  plot  by  relating  crown  areas  and/or  heights  to  
biomass  using  Equations  27, 
28  or  29  chosen  in  AIM  
Step 2. 
 
As   a   result   of   relatively   poor   relationship   found   
between  crown  area  and/or  heights  to  biomass,  tree 
biomass  was  estimated  using  the  Broadbent  et  al.  
(2008) regression equation (deviation in Eq. 28 and 30) 
using  tree  crown  areas  digitized  in  virtual  plots.  This  
model produced biomass estimates closer to field data 
than  the  allometric  model  using  DBH.  The  Broadbent  
equation  was  relevant  to  the  project  area  and  was  
adjusted   to   be   conservative   based   on   the   field   
measurements  taken.  Whilst  this  equation  had  an  R2  
of  slightly  less  than  0.7  the  approach  and  confidence  
deduction  taken  was  considered  consistent  with  the  
requirements of the methodology.    
 
AIM   Step   8:   Calculate   the   above-ground   biomass   
carbon  per  plot  on  a  per  area  basis  by  summing  the  
biomass  carbon  per  tree  within  each  virtual  plot  and  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 35 
multiplying   by   a   plot   expansion   factor   which   is   
proportional to the area of the measurement plot.  
 
Above ground biomass was calculated per plot. 
 
AIM  Step  9:  Calculate  mean  carbon  stock  within  each  
stratum by  averaging  across  plots  in  a  stratum  or  
stand. 
 
Mean  biomass  was  calculated  for  each  stratum  by  
averaging   across   plots   in   a   stratum.   Biomass   was   
converted     to     carbon     in     subsequent     baseline     
spreadsheet calculations. 
Estimation of increase in 
carbon stocks due to 
aboveground biomass 
growth of vegetation in 
baseline land-use 
The  methodology  states  that  an  appropriate  equation  
that  links  above  ground  carbon  stock  with  stand  age  
should be used in this estimation.  
 
Section  4.2.4.3  explains  the  use  of  a  palm  oil  growth  
curve  that  meets  the  methodology  requirements  and  
appears  to  be  a  conservative  approach  given  that  the  
model relates to palm oil on higher productive mineral 
soil  in  tropical  regions  (Ng  et  al.  1968).
 The  equation  
was confirmed to be applied correctly in the calculator 
provided.   
GHG emissions from 
harvesting aboveground 
biomass on baseline 
For  the  purpose  of  applying  Eq.  14  in  the  proposed  
methodology  to  estimate  the  change  in  carbon  stocks  
of  long-term  wood  products,  “long-lived”  is  assumed  
to be >5 years. In the project region, the proportion of 
harvested   wood   that   goes   into   long-term   wood   
products  was  obtained  using  FAO  data  for  Indonesia  
cited   in Winjum   et   al.   (1998).   This   approach   was   
considered appropriate. 
Estimation of GHG emissions from peat 
Depth of peat drainage In   accordance   with   the   methodology,   the   project   
proponent  conducted  canal  depth  measurements  in 
the neighboring palm     oil     concession     of     the     
deforestation   agent.   Survey   target   locations   were   
established  by  interpreting  peat  drainage  areas  on  
10-meter resolution SPOT5 satellite imagery. A total of 
50 canal depths were taken with the average drainage 
depth  found  to  be 
1.44  meters  averaged  across  all  
primary,  secondary  and  tertiary  drainages.  The  four  
primary  drainages  measured  were  all  >2  meters  deep 
(average   2.23   meters).   These   data   exclude   newly   
opened areas of deeper peat, which had not yet been 
planted  in  oil  palm.  Three  of  these  areas  were  visited  
during an initial survey, and new drainage canals were 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 36 
measured at >3 meters deep (average 3.40 meters).  
 
The Project assumes  that  all  peat  areas  within  the  
project    area    are    undrained    and    that    palm    oil    
plantations maintain a constant drainage depth of 100 
cm  below  the  surface,  which  is  consistent  with  the  
methodology  constraints  placed  on  drainage  depth. 
The  PD  cites  Hooijer  et  al.  (2006)  who  derived  a  
minimum estimate of 0.80 m, a likely estimate of 0.95 
m  and  a  maximum  estimate  of  1.1  m  based  on  peat  
depths  more  shallow  than  those  found  in  the  project  
site. 
 
The Project conservatively assumes that areas outside 
the    proposed    plantation    boundaries    would    be 
unaffected by drainage under the baseline scenario. 
 
This  approach  appeared  to  be  in  conformance  with  
the methodology. 
Time dimension of peat 
drainage 
In    accordance    with    the    methodology    and    the    
consistent with the field measurements conducted for 
drain depth,   the   default   relationship   listed   in   the   
methodology  was  correctly  described  in  the  PD  and  
applied in the calculation spreadsheet.  
Area of peat drainage The   methodology   assumes   that   the   area   of   peat 
drained  each  year  in  the  baseline  scenario  will  be  
equal to the area cleared and planted for the new land 
use. Land  conversion  figures  presented  in  the  PD  and  
the  supporting  spreadsheets  indicate  that  the  project  
proponents    approach    was    consistent    with    the    
methodology requirements.  
Relationship between 
CO2 emissions and 
drainage depth 
The  relationship  between  CO
2
  emissions  and  drainage  
depth  is  correctly  reported  in  the  PD  and  applied  in 
the calculation spreadsheet. 
GHG emissions from 
peat burning 
• Estimation of 
peat depth 
burned 
• Estimation of 
area of peat 
burned under the 
baseline scenario 
• Estimation of 
peat bulk density 
• Estimation of CO
2
 
and CH
4
 
Peat Depth Burned 
In    accordance    with    the    methodology    and    the    
particular  conditions  of  the Project,  the  estimate  of  
peat   burn   depth   should   be   34cm.   This   figure   is   
correctly   reported   in   the   PD   and   the   calculation   
spreadsheet. 
 
Estimated Area Burned 
The  estimated  area  burned  is  equivalent  to  the  total  
area   converted   to   palm   oil.   This   area   is   correctly 
applied in the calculation spreadsheet. 
 
Peat Bulk Density 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 37 
emissions factors Default  peat  bulk  density  values  are  used  for  ex-ante 
estimates.  As  such  there  is  a  requirement  to  measure  
peat  bulk  density  ex-post.  The  project  proponent  has  
committed     to     conducting     peat     bulk     density     
measurements    ex-post.    This    commitment    and    a    
timeframe  for  implementation  is  specified  in  the  PD. 
Note   that   peat   bulk   density   was   surveyed   and   
assessed  to  be  0.1505  g/cm
3
 based  on  test  results  
from  the  University  of  Palangkaraya  survey  of  the  
project area (see Peat Survey Report). This survey was 
conducted  for  the  single  belowground  strata  defined  
for  the  Project  and  met  the  uncertainty  requirements  
of  the  methodology  (n=48,  sd  =  0.0584,  uncertainty  =  
9.234%).  However,  an  additional  survey  of  peat  bulk  
density   will   be   carried   out   to   better   represent   
potential  variation  in  above-ground  strata.  Following 
baseline update in year 3, carbon stocks will be added 
or  subtracted  from  the  total  project  carbon  stock  as  
warranted   to   account   for   data   improvements   as   
allowed by the Methodology. 
 
The default value listed in the PD and the calculations 
presented in the spreadsheet are correct. 
 
Estimation of CO
2
 and CH
4
 emissions factors 
In    accordance    with    the    methodology    and    the    
description  in  the  PD,  the  estimation  of  CO
2
  and  CH
4
 
and N
2
O emission factors are correctly applied. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.14  
NCR VCS2010.15 
NCR VCS2010.16  
NCR VCS2010.17   
NCR VCS2010.18  
NCR VCS2010.19 
NCR VCS2010.20 
NCR VCS2010.21 
NCR VCS2010.23 
NCR VCS 2010.48 
NCR VCS 2010.49 
NCR VCS2010.51 
NCR VCS2010.52 
NCR VCS2010.53 
NCR VCS2010.55 
NCR VCS2010.56 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 38 
 
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS2010.24 
NIR VCS2010.33 
NIR VCS2010.34 
NIR VCS2010.35 
NIR VCS2010.36 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
3.4.4   Calculation of emissions from project activities (ex-ante) 
The  methodology  does  not  specify  equations  to  estimate  emissions  from  project  
activities. Subsequently the PD does not address emissions from project activities. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None     
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement:  
 
3.4.5   Calculation of emissions from leakage (ex-ante) 
The methodology considers both activity shifting leakage and market leakage.  
 
Activity Shifting Leakage 
The activity  displacement  considered  by  the  methodology  is  the  shift  of  pre-project 
planned  activities  to  outside  the  project  boundary.  The  area  of  activity  shifting  
leakage  shall  be  assessed  for  five  full  years  beyond  the  date  at  which  deforestation  
was  projected  to  occur  in  the  baseline.  However,  emissions  resulting  from  activity  
shifting leakage shall be tracked beyond the initial year of clearing where applicable 
to  account  for  emissions  from  peat  and  mineral  soils  that  continue  after  the  initial  
year of clearing.
 The methodology requires that an estimate of leakage be developed 
based on the following methodological approach. 
 
Activity Shifting Leakage Calculations Finding 
Step 1: Determine the baseline rate of 
forest clearance for the deforestation 
agent. 
Deforestation  rate  is  discussed  initially  on  
page   72   of   the   PD. The   approach   to   
determining    the    deforestation    rate    is 
explained  in  detail  on  page  Section  4.2.2.  
Assessment       of       deforestation       and       
conversion rate (page 90-93). 
 
The  project  proponent  considers  that  all  
land   already   owned   by the   agent   of   
deforestation  is  equivalent  to  the  baseline  
rate of forest clearance.  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 39 
Step 2. Estimate the new rate of forest 
clearance by the focal agent of 
deforestation with the project 
implementation if no leakage is 
occurring. 
The  project  proponent  will  monitor  new  
concessions  to  be  bought  by  the  agent  of  
deforestation  and  give  special  attention  to 
illegal clearing in the areas specified in the 
PD. Any additional activity will be classified 
as ‘the new rate of forest clearance’.  
Step 3. Monitor all areas by baseline 
agent of deforestation through the 
years in which the planned 
deforestation was forecast to occur. 
The  agent  of  proposed  deforestation  and  
conversion to oil palm plantation is known 
-  PT BINTANG  ERA  SINAR  TAMA  (BEST)  
Investment   Holding.   PT   BEST   oil   palm   
concessions  are  limited  to  four  districts  in  
Central  Kalimantan  and  total  139,424  ha  
on 15 parcels according to government GIS 
data  for  HGU  and  Izin  Lokasi  permits  in  
Central Kalimantan. 
 
This data is somewhat more extensive than 
information on permit licenses which were 
also  researched.  Where  concession  name  
or  concession  location  identified  in  permit  
records  made  a  close  match  to  the  GIS  
data,  the  concession  was  conservatively,  
considered  to  be  affiliated  with  PT  BEST.  
These  areas  are  all  to  be  monitored  via  
satellite  imagery  as  well  as  areas  within  
100km radius of palm oil processing plants 
(a   processing   limitation   of   palm   oil)   to   
detect    any    potential    activity    shifting    
leakage.  
 
Section 3.5  discussion  pages  75  and  82,  state  that  deforestation  was  projected  to  
occur by early 2009 and provides a commitment that leakage will be monitored June 
2009 to June 2014. It also states that activity shifting is not technically possible in the 
first two years since obtaining new concessions takes 2-3 years.  
 
Section 3.5  details  how  the  monitoring  area  will  be  restricted  to  a  boundary  of  100 
km  radius  around  the  two  palm  oil  processing  plants  owned  by  the  deforestation  
agent (identified as PT Best and its subsidiary companies) in the region.  
 
Market Leakage 
Market  leakage  represents  a  one-time  deduction  to  baseline  emissions  and  is  
presented in Section 4.4 of the PD. 
 
The selected methodology specifies the equations and the factors to be used in the 
estimation  of  market  leakage.  The  approach  required  by  the  methodology,  and  
documented   in   the   Project   Document   (PD)   provided,   is   consistent   with   the   
calculation  spreadsheets  provided  by  the  project  proponent.  The  default  factors  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 40 
used in the equations are selected from the range given in the methodology and are 
appropriate.  The  factors  selected  lead  to  the  most  conservative  estimate  of  market  
leakage. These factors are:  
 
LFME,i (leakage factor for market effect calculations) = 0.7    
фi (volume weighted average wood density) = 0.57 
CF (carbon fraction of dry matter) = 0.5 
LDF (logging damage factor) = 0.37 
 
The  factors  selected  to  estimate  market  leakage  are  consistently  applied  to  all  
identified  strata.  A  weighted  figure  (based  on  the  identified  strata)  is  appropriately 
applied  to  the  total  area  for  each  concession.  The  estimation  for  total  market  
leakage  over  the  entire  project  period  is  now  correctly  calculated  and  reported  as  
4,836,855 tCO
2
e.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS 2010.9  
     NCR VCS2010.10 
 
New Information Requests:    NIR VCS 2010.30  
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.4.6   Calculation  of  emission  reductions  or  avoided  emissions  due  to  the 
project (ex-ante) 
The methodology states that the ex ante net anthropogenic GHG emissions avoided 
as a result of the Project is calculated as the baseline net emissions minus leakage, in 
t CO
2
-e: 
 
The actual ex-ante net avoided GHG emissions are correctly calculated in the project 
spreadsheets  and  consistently documented  to  be  104,886,254 t  CO
2
-e  throughout 
the project documentation.   
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.10  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI VCS2010.41 
 
3.4.7   Uncertainties 
The  methodology  states  that  "in  choosing  key  parameters  or  making  important  
assumptions  based  on  information  that  is  not  specific  to  the  project  circumstances, 
such as in use of default data, project participants should select values that will lead 
to an accurate estimation of net GHG emissions, taking into account uncertainties. If 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 41 
uncertainty  is  significant,  project  participants  should  choose  data  such  that  it  tends  
to underestimate, rather than overestimate, net avoided emissions." 
 
In  many  cases  throughout  the  PD  and  supporting  documentation  related  to  the  
selection   of   values   the   project   proponent   has   erred   on   the   side   of   being 
conservative.  
 
The   methodology   provides   relatively   clear   guidance   on   when   uncertainty   of   
individual values must be incorporated into the baseline: 
 
• No   quantification   of   uncertainty   in   allometric   equations   is   necessary,   
provided they have been properly verified (Sec. 12.1.2). 
• When   literature   values   are   used,   a   90%   confidence   interval   must   be   
calculated and reported (Sec. 12.1.3). 
• Since  a  valid  verifiable  plan  must  exist  for  estimating  the  deforestation  rate,  
uncertainty in the deforestation rate is assumed to be 0. When default values 
are  required  by  the  Methodology,  they  can  be  assumed  to  be  conservative  
and uncertainty need not be quantified. 
• If  the  calculated  combined  error  in  estimated  GHG  emissions  reductions  is  
less than 10%, the proponent is not required to take a deduction (Sec. 24.3). 
However, a deduction is required otherwise. 
 
The  selected  methodology  requires  that  uncertainty  is  to  be  considered  for  the  
following parameters: 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 42 
 
Parameters 
requiring 
consideration 
of 
uncertainty 
Proponent 
Response 
 
Finding 
Area Uncertainty 
A 
B, itlogged
 - 
Area of land 
logged under 
the baseline 
scenario for 
stratum i, in 
time t 
Required. Zero. 
Case 1 described 
adjacent.  “In this 
methodology, 
deforestation rates 
are based on 
actual 
deforestation 
plans by the 
baseline agent of 
deforestation, 
therefore assume 
the uncertainty of 
this baseline rate 
of clearing is zero” 
(pg 53 of the 
methodology). 
The  area  cleared  is  based  on  existing  defined  concessions  
that are slated for palm oil conversion. 
Page 109 of the VCS PD states that since the methodology is 
only  applicable  to  projects  where  deforestation  is  planned  
and  projected  to  occur  within  10  years  of  the  project  start  
date (Applicability Condition D), uncertainty in deforestation 
rate   is   assumed   to   be   zero   (methodology   p.   53).   To   
demonstrate  the  most  likely  deforestation  rate  scenario,  an  
analysis  of  recent  palm  oil  conversion  in  the  reference  area  
by   the   agent   of   deforestation   was   conducted.   These   
GIS-based  calculations  are  estimated  to  be  >  90%  accurate.  
GIS-based parameters for ex ante calculations fall into one of 
two  cases,  which  are  referenced  in  the  parameter  table: 
 
Case 1. Area cleared, logged or planted (2,800 ha/yr): These 
parameters  are  based  on  the  actual  rate  of  clearing  by  the  
deforestation  agent,  determined  from  analysis  of  Landsat 
data.   Landsat   is   the   primary   tool   for   mapping   tropical   
deforestation  (Defries  et  al.  2005)  and  has  been  validated  
against  high  resolution  imagery  to  be  92-97.5%  accurate  
(NASA              accessed              January              15,              2011              
http://www.glcf.umd.edu/data/paraguay/description.shtml). 
 
Case 2. Area drained: Drainage area is based on stratification 
of peat/non-peat which derives from landcover stratification 
where  non-peat  types  (Kerangas  Forest  and  Open  Kerangas  
Scrub)  were  differentiated  from  all  other  types  with  92%  
producer’s accuracy and 98.5% user’s accuracy. 
 
 A zero uncertainty is justified.  
A 
cleared
 - Area 
cleared under 
the baseline 
scenario for 
stratum i, in 
time t B it 
Required. Zero. 
Case 1 described 
above.  “In this 
methodology, 
deforestation rates 
are based on 
actual  
deforestation 
plans by the 
baseline agent of 
Deforestation rates are reported as an annual linear average 
based  on  actual  deforestation  rates  in  PT  BEST  concessions.  
The   approach   takes   into   consideration   the   annual   land 
conversion  rate  of  6  concessions  owned  by  the  agent  of  
deforestation  over  6  years.  The  average  annual  conversion  
rate   is   determined   and   uncertainty   around   that   rate   
calculated.  A  deduction  is  made  for  the  variation  from  the  
linear   average   and   this   annual 
conversion   rate   is   then   
applied.    This  is  considered  an  appropriate  and  conservative  
reflection  of  the  actual  rate  of  annual  conversion.  It  is  a  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 43 
deforestation, 
therefore assume 
the uncertainty of 
this baseline rate 
of clearing is zero” 
(pg 53 of the 
methodology). 
conservative  approach  in  the  early  years  and  the  total  does  
not exceed the maximum historical rate of conversion by the 
agent  of  deforestation.  Given  that  the  total  area  to  be  
harvested  is  delineated  and  will  not  be  exceeded,  applying  
an uncertainty of zero is justified.      
 
Required. Zero. Case 1 described above 
A
itplanted
 - area 
of biomass 
growth on 
future land 
use in the 
baseline 
scenario in 
stratum i at 
time t 
Required. Zero. 
Case 1 described 
above.  GIS 
analysis of actual 
areas. 
The  proponent  used  the  same  value  as  the  deforestation  
rate.   As   the   uncertainty   is   integrated   into   the   overall   
conversion  rate,  uncertainty  of  this  parameter  need  not  be  
quantified. 
A
BH
 cleared  - 
Area cleared 
at harvest H 
under the 
baseline 
scenario for 
stratum i, in 
time t 
Eq. 48 not 
calculated – as 
palm oil 
plantations 
operate on a 25-30 
year timeframe, 
emissions from 
harvest rotations 
Eharvest were not 
considered in 
baseline 
estimation. This is 
conservative. 
Since  the  baseline  scenario  does  not  involve  planting  short-
rotation crops, this is OK. 
A
B,drain,it 
- area 
of drainage 
impact under 
the baseline 
scenario in 
stratum i, 
time t 
Required. Zero. 
Case 2 described 
above.  GIS 
analysis of actual 
areas. 
The  proponent  used  the  same  value  as  the  deforestation  
rate.   As   the   uncertainty   is   integrated   into   the   overall   
conversion  rate,  uncertainty  of  this  parameter  need  not  be  
quantified. 
A
B,burn,it 
- area 
of peat 
burned under 
the baseline 
scenario in 
tratum i at 
time t; 
Required. Zero. 
Case 1 described 
above.  GIS 
analysis of actual 
areas. 
The  proponent  used  the  same  value  as  the  deforestation  
rate.   As   the   uncertainty   is   integrated   into   the   overall   
conversion  rate,  uncertainty  of  this  parameter  need  not  be  
quantified. 
Timber Uncertainty 
P - percent of 
harvest 
industrial 
Required. Zero. 
Conservative 
Value. Industry 
The project proponent utilizes Winjum et al 1998 as the basis 
for the percent harvest industrial roundwood going into long 
term wood products. Whilst this paper does not present the 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 44 
roundwood 
going into 
long term 
wood 
products 
standard dataset 
(FAO 1995) and 
report (Winjum et 
al. (1998). 
90%  confidence  interval,  this  is  a  widely  used  reference  for  
these parameters and could be considered a default value. A 
zero uncertainty is considered appropriate in this instance.  
B
logged 
- mean 
merchantable 
wood volume 
 
Logging site data 
from Mawas used 
("Logging gap data 
Mawas calculation 
sheet 23jun08-
1.xls") Mean = 
0.36, SE = 0.0176, 
n=93. Uncertainty 
(90%CI/mean*100) 
= 8.04% 
Reported  uncertainty  is  consistent  with  that  reported  in  the  
literature. 
Biomass Burning Uncertainty 
CE - Average 
biomass 
combustion 
efficiency 
Required. Zero. 
Default value used. 
The IPCC default value was used and as such is considered to 
represent  conservative  values  based  on  verifiable  literature  
sources. Therefore the zero uncertainty is justified. 
MV
B,AG_timber,it 
- Mean 
merchantable 
volume under 
the baseline 
scenario in 
stratum i at 
time t 
N/A -  Eq. 34 not 
used since BEF 
method not 
selected as 
allowed by the 
methodology p. 
20; Parameter 
Blogged used in 
place of 
MVB,AG_tree,it in 
Eq. 76 leakage 
N/A 
ф i Literature value 
used (Reyes, 
Brown, Chapman, 
& Lugo, 1992) 
representing wood 
density for tropical 
Asia. Mean = 0.57, 
SE = 0.007, n = 
428. Uncertainty 
(90%CI/mean*100) 
= 2.03% 
 
Reported  uncertainty  is  consistent  with  that  reported  in  the  
literature. 
Future Land Use Uncertainty 
R 
ARB,it
 - 
increase in 
carbon stocks 
Palm oil growth 
curves were 
constructed to 
The   proponent   built   in   the   uncertainty   reported   in   the   
literature   value   used   and   therefore   applies   conservative   
values  in  estimations  of  palm  oil  growth.  A  zero  uncertainty  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 45 
due to palm 
oil 
sequestration. 
 
estimate annual 
carbon 
accumulation as 
presented in the 
spreadsheet Oil 
Palm Growth 
Model ...xls” which 
shows the 90% CI 
and calculated 
uncertainty of the 
carbon 
accumulation 
parameter in each 
year. Uncertainty 
was calculated 
across palm oil 
growth cohorts 
and years.  
Uncertainty is low 
overall in the palm 
oil growth 
parameter (<4% 
over the 30-year 
project life) but 
exceeds the 10% 
precision target in 
years 3-8. Baseline 
palm oil carbon 
accumulation 
associated with 
these years is low 
compared to other 
carbon pools such 
that the Project 
meets the 
allowable 
uncertainty under 
this methodology 
of +/- 10% CREDD, 
at the 90% 
confidence level. 
(meth p.98). 
However, in order 
to build in 
conservativeness, 
estimated carbon 
accumulation 
is justified. 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 46 
associated with 
palm oil growth 
has been increased 
in years 3-8 and an 
uncertainty of zero 
is assumed as 
allowed by the 
methodology (p. 
52): 
Peat Uncertainty 
BD
i 
- Bulk 
density of 
peat in 
stratum I (g 
cm3 = t m3) 
Required. Zero. 
Default value used. 
The  methodology  default  value  was used therefore the zero 
uncertainty is justified. 
D
B,burn,it 
- depth of 
peat burned 
under the 
baseline 
scenario in 
stratum i at 
time t;
 
Required. Zero. 
Default value used. 
According to the 
methodology p. 37 
“The depth of peat 
burned shall be 
assumed to be 
equal to the 
drainage depth, 
minus a critical 
threshold of 40 cm 
above the 
drainage depth. If 
the difference 
between drainage 
depth and the 
critical threshold 
exceeds 34 cm, 
then the maximum 
burn depth of 34 
cm shall be 
applied.” Since 
drainage depth for 
the baseline is 
100cm, a burn 
depth of 34 cm is 
used. 
The  methodology  default  value  was  used  therefore  the  zero  
uncertainty is justified. 
 
In  addition  to  the  methodology  parameters  specified  by  the  methodology,  the  
project  proponent  integrated  uncertainty  in  to  the  reported  figured  for  palm  oil  re-
growth calculations.  
  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 47 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.11  
     NCR VCS2010.22 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.4.8   Calculation of net VCUs to be issued (ex-ante) 
Neither  the  methodology,  nor  the  PD  presents  an  equation  for  calculating  the  net  
VCUs  to  be  issued  (ex-ante)  but  rather  present  an  approach  to  estimating  net  GHG  
benefits  (ex-ante).  The  actual  net  greenhouse  gas  emissions  avoided  represent  the  
sum  of  the  avoided  net  decreases  in  carbon  stocks  and  avoided  peat  emissions  
within  the  project  boundary  (CBSL),  minus  any  GHG  emissions  from  the  baseline  
scenario  that  are  not  prevented  within  the  project  boundary  in  the  project  case  
(CPRJ),  such  as  logging,  fire,  or  other  land  use  changes  that  lead  to  an  increase  in  
emissions.  The project proponent has correctly applied the methodology to arrive at 
an  ex-ante  estimation  of  131,107,818  t  CO
2
-e.  The  PD  reports  the  ex-ante  GHG  
emissions  avoided  as  104,886,254  t  CO
2
-e  after  consideration  of  the  20%  risk  with  
holding  buffer.  Review  of  the  project  calculation  spreadsheet  confirmed  that  the  
estimations were in accordance with the specified estimation approach presented in 
the methodology and the PD.     
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.4.9   The assumptions made for estimating GHG emissions 
Generally the assumptions made throughout the PD and supporting calculations are 
consistent with the relevant VCS criteria and are carried through to the calculations 
correctly. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None 
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.5 Environmental and Social Impact 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 48 
3.5.1   Requirements    for    and    approval    of    an    Environmental    Impact    
Assessment (if applicable) 
Section  8  of  the  PD  explains  that  the  completion  of  an  Environmental  and  Social  
Impact  Study  by  a  third  party  is  the  sixth  step in  the  acquirement  of  an  Ecological  
Restoration  Concession license  in  Indonesia.  Section  5  of  the  PD confirms  that  an  
Environmental  Impact  Assessment  was  conducted  by  independent  consultants  in  
March 2010 and directs the reader to Annex 7. This Annex was cited in the offices of 
OFI  in  Punkalan  Bun  and  was  in  Bahasa  Indonesian.  A  summary  of  the  EIA  was  
provided  and  was  sufficient  to  demonstrate  conformance  with  this  component  of  
the standard.  
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None     
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
 
3.5.2   Negative environmental and socio-economic impacts of the project 
Section   5   of the   PD   provides   a   brief   summary   of   the   Environmental   Impact   
Assessment,  stating  the  majority  of  impacts  with  have  a  positive  environmental  
outcome.  It lists some of the positives as: 
 protection of hydrological function 
 improved marine habitat 
 maintenance of biodiversity and preservation of habitat 
 mitigation of erosion, resulting in improved water quality 
 
Some  potential  negative  environmental  impacts  resulting  from  the Project  include 
(among others): 
 Risks to water quality from increased tourist in the area 
 Increased water pollution from increased boat traffic for eco-tourism 
 Regional  population  increases  from  improved  services  leading  to  increased  
stress on the forest 
 Construction  of  fire  access  roads  may  disturb  natural  habitat  and  cause  soil  
compaction 
 
This  section  also  suggests  mitigation  strategies  that  are  considered consistent with 
the risk posed. 
 
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None     
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 49 
 
3.5.3   Comments by stakeholders 
Section 6, page 98 of the PD outlines a list of stakeholder engagement meetings that 
the  project  proponent  has  undertaken.  These  engagement  exercises  were  largely  
undertaken  in  December  2008.  During  the  audit  evidence  was  presented  that  
significant  additional stakeholder  meetings  had  also  taken  place.  The Project  is 
seeking  approval  under  the  Climate  Community  and  Biodiversity  standard  and  
community  and  stakeholder  engagement  process  are  a  significant  part  of  this  
application. In  general  it  was  determined  that  the  community’s  interests  and  needs  
had  been  taken  into  consideration  during  the  project  development and  contracts  
had  been  clarified  as  tot  eh  benefit  sharing  arrangements  between  the  key  project  
stakeholders   (i.e.   Infinite   Earth   and   the   Orangutan   Foundation   International).   
Significant  work  had  also  been  completed during  2010  to  improve  the  general 
understanding of the benefits the project activities will bring to the region.   
 
 Conformance:    Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   None     
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: OFI VCS 2010.42 
      
3.6 Project Risk 
3.6.1   Identification of Project Risk 
The project risks register is detailed in Section 1.11, page 28 of the PD. Fire is listed 
as  the  greatest  risk  to  the  project  area,  which  is  said  to  be  mitigated  by  the  
experience of project partners and a local community approach.  
 
The  risk  approach  taken  to  determine  the  non-permanence  buffer  utilizes  the 
relevant  sections  of  the  VCS  Tool  for  AFOLU  Non-Permanence  Analysis  and  Buffer  
Determination.  The  full  validation  of  the  Risk  Assessment  is  presented  in  the  First  
Assessment of the Double Approval Elements Report.  
  
Conformance:     Yes  No  N/A    
 
Non-Conformity Reports:   NCR VCS2010.3  
 
New Information Requests:    None 
 
Opportunities for Improvement: None 
   
4 Validation conclusion 
Scientific Certification Services (SCS) has performed a validation of “The Rimba Raya 
Biodiversity  Reserve  Project”  against  the  requirements  of  the  Voluntary  Carbon  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 50 
Standard  2007.1  (VCS)  and  its  supporting  documents,  as  well  as  the  selected  
approved  methodology  VM0004  Methodology  for  Conservation  Projects  that  Avoid  
Planned Land Use Conversion in Peat Swamp Forests, Version 1.0.  
 
The project proponent is Infinite Earth. SCS has confirmed that Infinite Earth has the 
right to all and any reductions generated by the Project during the Project Crediting 
Period, 1July 2008 – 30 June 2039. 
 
The review of the project design documentation,  field  visits  and  subsequent  follow-
up   interviews   have   provided   SCS   with   sufficient   evidence   to   determine   the   
fulfillment of the stated criteria. 
 
The Project  correctly  applies  the  approved  VCS  methodology  element  VM0004 – 
Methodology  for  Conservation  Projects  that  Avoid  Planned  Land  Use  Conversion  in  
Peat Swamp Forests, Version 1.0. 
 
The  main  project  activity  is  to  prevent  deforestation  caused  by  land use conversion 
to  palm  oil  plantation.  The Project  results  in  reductions  of  GHG  emissions  that  are 
real, measurable and give long-term benefits to the mitigation of climate change. 
 
Emission reductions attributable to the Project have been shown to be additional to 
any that would occur in the absence of the project activity. 
 
The  total  emission  reductions  from  the  Project  are  estimated  to  be  104,886,254 
tCO
2
e  over  the  30-year  crediting  period  (1  July  2009  –  30  June  2039).  This  includes 
project  emissions,  total  confidence deduction and leakage deduction applied as per 
VM0004,  and  the  VCS  AFOLU  buffer  deductions  currently  assessed  at 20%.  This  
estimate  assumes  the  baseline  does  not  change  during  the  baseline  Re-evaluation. 
Adequate training and monitoring procedures have been implemented. 
 
In  summary,  it  is  the  opinion  of  SCS  that  the  “The  Rimba  Raya  Biodiversity  Reserve  
Project” in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia as described in the VCS PD of May 15, 2011 
meets all relevant VCS 2007.1 requirements and correctly applies the VCS approved 
methodology  element  VM0004  Methodology  for  Conservation  Projects  that  Avoid  
Planned Land Use Conversion in Peat Swamp Forests, Version 1.0. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Carly Green 
Lead Verifier 
Contractor to Scientific Certification Systems 
31 August 2011 
 
 
Todd Frank 
Program Manager, Greenhouse Gas Verification 
Scientific Certification Systems 
August 31, 2011 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 51 
Appendix A – Responses to Non Conformity Requests / New Information 
Requests / Opportunities for Improvement 
NCR Number 2010.1 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide evidence of necessary government authorizations to obtain 
the carbon rights to the Carbon Accounting Area.  
Proponent Response:  Please see attached the updated section 8.1 of the PD and 
refer to new PD Annexes 12A and 12B for details on the government regulations and 
authorizations necessary to obtain carbon rights to the Carbon Accounting Area. 
Validator Response: The additional clarifying text presented in Section 8.1 of the PD 
indicates that the project has sufficiently demonstrated ‘user rights’ in accordance 
with the requirements of the VCS 2011 guidance on demonstration of ‘user rights’ 
and control over the project area. 
 
The project proponent shall demonstrate control over the entire project area with proof 
of title with respect to one or more rights of use accorded to the project proponent as 
set out in the VCS Standard, noting the following:  
 
1) The entire project area shall be under the control of the project proponent at the time of 
validation, or shall come to be under the control of the project proponent by the first 
verification event. Where the project proponent does not yet have control over the 
entire area at validation, the entire project area is to be validated as if it were under 
control and the project is ready to be implemented. Where less than 80 percent of the 
total proposed area of the project is under current control at validation, the following 
applies:  
 
a) It shall be demonstrated that the result of the additionality test is applicable to the 
project area at the time of validation and to the entire project area to come under 
control in the future.  
b) The monitoring plan shall be designed such that it is flexible enough to deal with 
changes in the size of the project.  
c) The project shall be verified within five years of validation. At verification, the size of 
the project becomes fixed.  
d) Where the area fixed at verification is smaller than intended at validation, areas that 
at verification have not come under control of the project shall be considered in the 
leakage management, mitigation and accounting. This requires the selection, at 
validation, of a methodology with appropriate leakage methods that may be used in the 
event the entire area does not come under control of the project.  
 
It is the validators opinion that the design of the project meets these requirements 
in the absence of the full allocation of the Ecosystem Restoration Licence at the time 
of validation. It is also the validators opinion that this guidance from 2011 is relevant 
to this project and poses no foreseeable adverse risk to the VCS program as the 
proponent has adequately demonstrated that the requirements of the standard can 
be meet once the project is ready for verification.   
 
NCR Number 2010.2 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide the official government issued map of license area 
boundaries. 
Proponent Response:  The Ministry of Forestry Area Verification map, shown below 
has been included as Figure 31 in the updated section 8.1 of the PD. This map shows 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 52 
the entire Rimba Raya concession (Project Management Zone) which surrounds the 
project boundary (Carbon Accounting Area) – see below and Figure 2 of the PD. Note 
that the Indonesian government does not differentiate the (smaller) carbon project 
boundary but instead recognizes the entire concession within which carbon trading 
activities are allowed. 
 
Area Verification is a key step in the Ecosystem Restoration License authorization 
process and is described in detail in the updated section 8.1 of the PD. Briefly, the 
Rimba Raya PMZ was designated, refined and approved by a series of letters by the 
Minister of Forestry. These letters have been specifically referenced and are included 
in a new Annex 12B to the PD. The Minister’s SP1 Letter has conditionally approved 
the Rimba Raya concession presented in the Area Verification Map. The Minister’s 
SP2 Letter has ordered this map to be formalized and a final decree to be drafted. 
 
Validator Response: The maps and additional clarifying text related to the 
Ecosystem Restoration License authorisation process indicates that the project has 
demonstrated ‘user rights’ to the project areas presented in the PD and supporting 
documentation. This is sufficient to demonstrate that the boundaries of the project 
are the same boundaries considered for the Ecosystem Restoration license and 
subject to the demonstration of ‘user rights’ justified in NCR 1 above.  
  
NCR Number 2010.3 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The Non-Permanence Analysis and Buffer Determination tool states that if a 
project developer /implementer has no previous experience in the design and 
implementation of activities that may ensure the longevity of carbon benefits then 
the minimum buffer amount applied should be 20%. Please clearly justify why the 
project proponent has applied the lowest buffer amount. 
Proponent Response: Revised risk assessment with justification of buffer has been 
provided by Gabe Eickoff and is currently undergoing third party validation. 
Validator Response: The justification was not satisfactory and the 20% withholding 
buffer was agreed as defined in the First Assessment of the Double Approval 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 53 
Elements Report. 
 
 
NCR Number 2010.4 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide evidence the methodology used is double approved and that 
the latest versions of both the selected and ADP methodology elements are applied.  
Proponent Response: Please see VCS link: http://www.v-c-s.org/VM0004.html 
Validator Response: With this response and changes to the VCS PD are adequate to 
close this issue. Therefore non-conformances relating to 3.2.2 Approval of the 
baseline methodology and 3.3.1 Approval of the monitoring methodology of this 
validation report are closed. 
 
NCR Number 2010.5 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: In accordance with the requirements of the methodology applicability 
criteria, please provide proof that each applicability criteria has been fulfilled in the 
appropriate section of the PD. 
Proponent Response: Please see Applicability Table attached herein. 
Validator Response: The project proponent provided a table which addressed all 10 
applicability criteria and a specific descriptive response which included, where 
relevant,  the section and page of the PD where each criterion is covered in more 
detail and any relevant references presented to support justification. The completed 
table was added to the PD Final document and adequately closed this non-
conformance. 
 
NCR Number 2010.6 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: References within the document provide important explanation and 
justification for decisions made within the project. Please provide a detailed and 
complete bibliography for the PD so that a third party can evaluate it.  
Proponent Response: A bibliography has been provided. 
Validator Response: The PD Final document has a bibliography which a third party 
can use to validate the claims made in the report and was sufficient to close this 
non-conformance. 
 
NCR Number 2010.7 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: In accordance with the requirements of the selected methodology the CDM 
Tool ―Calculation of the number of sample plots for measurements within A/R CDM 
project activities should be applied to determine/justify the number, size and 
location of sampling plots.  
Proponent Response: The biomass survey using aerial plots was planned so that 
photographs would be taken systematically over Rimba Raya concession, with a focus 
on the carbon accounting area.   A total of 3,380 photographs were taken over Rimba 
Raya, each one covering approximately 120 ha (see Figure in last page).  An initial 
pilot study was done were by 20 photographs per land cover/land use strata were 
chosen to gain an estimate of the standard deviation of the biomass per strata.  This 
initial sample generated a table with the following statistics:  (see last page).  
 
Table 1 Results from pilot sample of biomass (n = 20 per LC/LU strata).  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 54 
LC/LU Classes 
Mean 
Biomass Std Err Std Dev 
Number 
of  
  (ton/ha) (ton/ha) (ton/ha) 
plots 
needed 
Peat (lightly degraded) 
262,722 
4,688 46,489 58 
Peat (highly degraded) 
96,140 
20,677 63,584 49 
Peat Scrubland 
no photo 
plots  
   
River and Coastal Forest 
228,296 
31,803 80,122 77 
Kerangas 
87,117 
25,423 76,253 70 
Open sandy scrub 
40,863 
8,877 41,914 74 
Seasonally inundated wetlands 
no photo 
plots  
   
Bare or sparsely vegetated 
24,592 
5,683 16,072 78 
 
The Std Deviation was incorporated into the relevant formula shown in p. 14 of the 
Baseline Report (Annex 11) and a 10% sample error was applied to generate the 
number of plots needed in each strata.  Note, after this pilot was conducted, LC/LU 
strata were redone using a 2009 satellite image and the River and Coastal Forest 
were merged with lightly degraded peat swamp. 
 
Additional aerial plots were added to meet the number recommended in the above 
pilot and the table below (shown in Annex 11 as Table 7) presents the final biomass 
estimates.   
 
Table 2.  Statistics for the estimate of biomass by strata 
Land Cover/Land Use 
Classes 
No. of 
plots 
Mean 
Biomass 
(t/ha) 
Std. 
Error 
Sample Error 
w/ 90% CI 
Peat Swamp - lightly 
degraded 129 267 3.6 
2.3% 
Peat Swamp - highly 
degraded 54 166 7.7 
7.8% 
Peat Swamp - shrub 
(deforested) 61 63 5.4 
14.4% 
Kerangas (heath)  66 112 6.9 
10.3% 
Kerangas - scrub 
(deforested) 54 75 8.0 
18.0% 
 
Only in the strata classed as deforested does the sample error exceed the 
recommended 10% (at a 90% level of confidence).  The strata with the highest 
biomass has a very low sample error due to the large number of plots installed (the 
coastal and riverine forest plots were merged into this class).  
 
Validator Response: Whilst there is no reference to the use of the CDM tool the 
approach taken is consistent with the tool and the response to NCR 2010.13 states 
that the tool was used.  The validator is satisfied that the approach taken is 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 55 
consistent with the selected methodology. 
 
 
NCR Number 2010.8 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The PD and supporting documents do not specifically address the 
methodology elements applied in ex-ante calculations nor always clearly define and 
justify any variations/deviations from the methodology. Given the complex nature of 
the methodology and the structure of the PD and supporting Annexes, this makes it 
very difficult for a third party to validate that the methodology was correctly applied. 
Please update the PD to adequately and clearly address the specific elements of the 
methodology that were applied (and any deviations from such) so that a third party 
can validate it. This specifically relates to stratification, leakage and biomass stocks. 
Stepping through the methodology elements applied in Section 4, as is done in 
Section 3.4 of the PD would improve transparency and the ability to validate the 
approach.     
Proponent Response: The PD and supporting documents have been revised and 
updated to clearly address the methodology elements applied throughout the 
document including the sections on ex-ante calculations. Special attention was given 
to revising the presentation and adding references to the methodology for sections 
on stratification, leakage and biomass stocks. Methodology steps have been 
addressed in Section 4 of the PD to improve clarity and facilitate review. 
Validator Response: The project proponent has added some key aspects to the final 
PD document that assists in the validation of the approach taken by the project 
proponent. These include methodological pathway figures consistent with those 
presented in the methodology. These are presented in Figure 16, 25 and 29. These 
figures clearly show any variations from the prescribed approach in the 
methodology.  
In addition, the spreadsheet calculation tool was improved to provide more guidance 
which lead to improving the ability to validate the approach taken by the proponent 
against the selected methodology. Comments were added to highlight and justify 
key assumptions and the selection of parameters.  
These improvements assisted in the validation of the spreadsheets as well as the 
identification of some inconsistencies and errors in the calculations which were 
rectified through discussions with the project proponent and the validator. 
Therefore the additions to the documentation are sufficient to close this non-
conformance.       
 
NCR Number 2010.9 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Areas defined as protected should not be excluded from leakage monitoring 
as there is no evidence that these boundaries are recognized by deforestation 
agents.  
Proponent Response: This has been corrected and the Monitoring Report will reflect 
that the protected areas have been included. Please see Monitoring Report Year 1-
Rev2.0. 
Validator Response: The text in the Monitoring plan states that “For purposes of 
monitoring areas of possible leakage that would not appear in government 
records, project proponents initially expanded focused monitoring to include all 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 56 
lands within a 100km radius of the project area. Upon further analysis, it was felt 
that an area of 100km radius around each of the two CPO processing mills owned 
and operated by the agent of deforestation would be more appropriate as this 
coincides with the 100km operational constraints of edible palm oil operators such 
as the agent of deforestation.” 
However Figure 19 and 20 of the Monitoring Report show monitoring areas that are 
not consistent with this statement. Two large concessions sit outside this 100km 
range. When queried, the project proponent explained that these concessions are 
not currently viable due to the distance to the processing facility. Nonetheless the 
project proponent has committed to monitoring activity on all PT BEST concessions, 
including the two that fall outside the 100km radius. The information provided by 
the proponent is sufficient to close out this NCR.  
 
NCR Number 2010.10 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Ensure that the ex-ante net anthropogenic GHG emissions avoided are 
estimated in accordance with the selected methodology. In particular that the ex-
ante leakage estimates are developed/reported in accordance with the methodology 
or any variation/deviation explained.  
Proponent Response: The ex-ante net anthropogenic GHG emissions avoided are 
estimates in accordance with the selected methodology. Specifically, the ex-ante 
leakage estimates are developed and reported in accordance with the methodology 
and are presented in the updated Baseline Report. Please refer to the final Baseline 
Report and Baseline Emissions calculations. 
Validator Response: Following many iterations and revisions of the ex-ante 
calculator and improvements in the documentation of the methodological approach, 
the ex-ante net anthropogenic GHG emissions avoided appear to be estimated in 
accordance with the selected methodology. The methodology variation from the 
documented Aerial Image Method (AIM) steps are adequately described in the text 
and Figure 29 in section 4.5 of the PD as well as the text of the Baseline Report. 
These variations represent a project-specific change that does not change the 
equation logic in the chosen methodology. Additionally the variations utilized 
equations relevant to the forest type and geographical location and were 
demonstrated to result in conservative estimates.  
 
NCR Number 2010.11 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please choose key parameters and make important assumptions that will 
lead to an accurate estimation of net GHG emissions which includes taking into 
account and calculating uncertainties in accordance with the selected methodology. 
Proponent Response: Please see Table 4 attached. Also, extensive explanations and 
references have been made inside the cells of key parameters in the Final Baseline 
Calculation worksheet. 
Validator Response: The project proponent has improved the reporting of key 
parameters, assumptions and uncertainty related to these parameters in Table 24 of 
the PD. This Table is consistent with the Data Tables presented in the selected 
methodology. This table presents justified parameters and reports uncertainty 
where requested by the selected methodology. In accordance with the methodology 
(pg 52) conservative estimates can also be used instead of uncertainties, provided 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 57 
they are based on verifiable literature sources or expert judgement. In this case the 
uncertainty is assumed to be zero.  
 
NCR Number 2010.12 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding:  There are a number of points in the application of the selected 
methodology where possible variations/deviations have occurred. These include the 
elements related to leakage, logging gap detection and potentially above ground 
biomass estimation (see NIR VCS2010.4 and NIR VCS2010.11 ). Given the lack of 
connectivity between the methodology and the PD it is currently difficult to 
determine if there are others. Please clearly document any if there are any 
methodology deviation or variations, their justification and their expected impact on 
the ex-ante/ex-post estimations of project GHG emissions.  
Proponent Response: We have highlighted any variations to the methodology and 
we have clearly documented the pertinent sections of the methodology in the 
Baseline Report, Baseline Calculations Sheet, Monitoring Plan and Monitoring 
Report. 
Validator Response: Section 4.5 of final PD states that there were variations in the 
Aerial Image Method (AIM) steps of the baseline calculations, which are detailed in 
Figure 29. These variations are considered to represent a project-specific change and 
do not change the equation logic in the selected methodology. 
During the validation process the selected methodology was finally approved. This 
final version had some changes to approach that the project proponent took into 
consideration. The approach taken by the project proponent now appears to be 
consistent with the methodology. This conclusion was assisted by the changes and 
clarifications made by the project proponent in Figure 29 -  Methodological 
Pathways and the final version of the calculation spreadsheet.  
 
NCR Number 2010.13 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please justify the sampling framework in accordance with the selected 
methodology. (i.e.) It is not clear if the accuracy of the initial stratification is 
sufficient. It is not clear if the monitoring of 16 plots in the baseline transects is likely 
to lead to statistically improved data for the 10 year re-evaluation. 
Proponent  Response: To  respond  to  this  NCR,  three  points  are  addressed:  1)  
sampling framework, 2) accuracy of stratification and 3) biomass plot monitoring.” 
1. Sampling Framework  
In  accordance  with  the  Methodology,  above  ground  carbon  stocks  were  estimated 
using high-resolution aerial imagery (AIM Steps, Methodology). Sampling framework 
followed methodology requirements: 
Sample  size  was  established  by  conducting  a  pilot  study  with  n=20  plots  for  each  
land cover strata and calculating biomass variance. As required by the Methodology, 
a  10%  sample  error  with  a  90%  Confidence  Interval  was  applied  to  generate  the  
number of plots needed in each strata and updated to final land cover stratification. 
A total of 364 aerial plots were analyzed for biomass estimation. 
Plot size was sufficiently large to minimize between-plot variation in biomass for the 
number  of  sample  plots  established.  The  CDM  Tool  suggests  plot  sizes  of  at  least  
100-1000 m2 (depending on stand density) to adequately capture biomass variation, 
and subsequently reduce sample size. Aerial plot size at Rimba Raya was 10,000 m2, 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 58 
so each plot should be highly representative of the vegetation within its boundaries. 
Plot  location  followed  a  stratified  random  design  with  all  Carbon  Accounting  Area  
land cover classes represented. Plots centers are located at the center point of aerial 
images as recommended by the Methodology. 
 
2. Stratification 
Following  the  methodology,  a  preliminary  stratification  was  performed  based  on  
existing   information   (e.g.   Ministry   of   Forestry   land   cover   mapping).   Initial   
stratification included all major forest blocks and transects were located throughout 
these blocks to maximize sample size for ground measurements including tree DBH, 
crown   diameter   and   peat   depth.   Final   stratification   was   performed   based   on   
improved  data  and  supplementary  sampling  (e.g.  2009  Landsat  imagery  and  aerial  
image and ground reference data). 
An accuracy assessment was performed on final stratification and a confusion matrix 
generated  as  required  by  the  Methodology.  An  overall  classification  accuracy  of  
81.3%  was  obtained.  The  predominant  class  by  area,  lightly  degraded  peat  swamp  
forest   covering   30,445   ha   or   33.5%   of   Rimba   Raya,   was   mapped   with   90.0%   
accuracy.  A  weighted  kappa  coefficient  of  0.78  indicated  there  is  good  agreement  
between  all  map  classes  interpreted  from  satellite  imagery  and  aerial  photo  data.  
This stratification was used in the final sample design for aerial plot locations. 
 
3. Biomass Plot monitoring 
To clarify, the primary purpose of the ground survey was to provide data that served 
to  validate  biomass  estimates  derived  from  the  Aerial  Image  Method.    The  field  
survey of 36 biomass plots distributed on 8 transects across the Carbon Accounting 
Area had the following objectives:  
• Gain  an  idea  by  strata  of  the  variation  in  biomass  and  use  this  to  compute  a  
coefficient  of  variation  for  the  aerial  survey  assuming  a  10%  sample  error  
with a 90% CI.   
• Gather  data  on  canopy  widths  and  DBH  spread  throughout  a  range  of  
diameters and crown illumination classes, which will allow a linear regression 
model to be constructed that uses crown width as the independent variable.  
• Using  observations  in  the  field,  validate  the  land  cover/use  classes  before  
conducting the aerial survey analysis.   
Biomass  plots  will  not  be  used  to  try  to  “statistically  improve  data  for  the  10-yr  re-
evaluation”, since according to the Methodology: 
 
1. “Baseline   net   GHG   emissions   are   not   monitored   in   this   methodology.   The   
methodology prescribes validity of the baseline identified ex ante at the start of the 
project activity for the crediting period, thereby avoiding the need for monitoring of 
the  baseline  over  the  crediting  period,  and  achieves  savings  in  the  costs  associated  
with  baseline  monitoring.  However,  the  baseline  is  re-assessed/revised  every  10  
years.” (page 5), and   
2.  “when  estimating  existing  carbon  stocks  within  baseline  strata  for  an  avoided  
emissions  project,  permanent  sampling  plots  are  not  necessary  because  these  
carbon  stocks  do  not  need  to  be  tracked  over  time.  Therefore,  temporary  sampling  
plots can be used” (page 10). 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 59 
 
Biomass  plots  have  been  established  so  that  they  may  be  re-surveyed  during  
monitoring every 3-4 years. This is not required by the methodology but can provide 
long-term data that may improve the understanding of the project area in a way that 
will inform future management and monitoring. 
 
Validator Response: : The response is adequate to close this NCR. 
 
NCR Number 2010.14 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide evidence the methodology used is double approved and that 
the latest versions of both the selected and ADP methodology elements are applied.  
Proponent Response: Please see VCS link: http://www.v-c-s.org/VM0004.html 
Validator Response: The response is adequate to close this NCR. 
 
NCR Number 2010.15 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The methodology outlines three possible approaches to estimating 
aboveground biomass using aerial imagery, allometry or biomass expansion factors. 
It is not clear in the PD or supporting Annexes which if these approaches was 
ultimately used and as such it is difficult to adequately validate that the specific 
requirements for the selected approach have been fulfilled. Please clearly relate the 
approach taken to the methodology applied. (see also NCR VCS2010.8). 
Proponent Response: The aerial-based approach was used in Rimba Raya to provide 
a cost-effective and accurate estimate of biomass over a large and remote peat area.  
This method was chosen due to the extremely limited access to the Rimba Raya 
concession, and ensures a comprehensive distribution of the biomass plots.  The 
process described in the methodology was followed to measure tree crowns in the 
aerial photographs with the only difference being that Broadbent et al.’s formula 
was used since it generated an estimate closest to the biomass measured in the 
ground-based plots and that estimate also coincided closely with published studies 
from similar peat swamps.   Additionally, the aerial photos could serve for 
monitoring this forest since the same flight lines could be flown and photographed 
periodically.  A map was included in NCR-2010.7_NCR-2010.7 that shows the flight 
lines and location of the aerial photos taken over Rimba Raya.  
 
As a way to validate the aerial-based biomass estimate, ground plots were also 
installed beforehand.  These plots also served as a failsafe system in the event that 
the aerial photography mission failed to acquire sufficient imagery.   
Validator Response: The methodological pathways (Figure 29) of the updated PD 
clearly documents the decision making process and the approach taken. This 
information was adequate such that a third party could validate the approach taken 
matched the approach presented in the selected methodology. 
 
NCR Number 2010.16 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: In the PD clearly justify that the sample size was large enough to capture 
the variability in both DBH and crown areas of trees in the project boundary in 
accordance with the methodology. 
Proponent Response: In the field, 36 2500m
2
 biomass plots on 8 transects across the 
project area were established, within which DBH was measured for all trees >20 cm 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 60 
DBH (n=1555) and tree crown diameter (n=340) was measured for a range of tree 
sizes in each biomass plot. Descriptive statistics show that variability in DBH and tree 
crown diameter was adequately captured. This is described in attached document 
“VCS Validation_IE_NCR-2010.16_NCR VCS2010.16_071310_SUPPL.doc” 
Validator Response: The additional explanation provided by the proponent 
adequately demonstrates that the number of plots was sufficient to capture the 
variability. 
 
NCR Number 2010.17 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The methodology states that 'species and minimum diameter classes sold in 
the local timber market can be obtained from government records, timber records of 
existing logging operations, surveys of illegal logging activities, sawmill surveys, or 
records of previous land use conversion also meeting the applicability conditions of 
this methodology'. The PD gives some indication that the minimum diameter is 30cm 
however uses 15cm, whilst this is conservative the justification for its use appears 
unfounded. 
Proponent Response : The size limit and definition of merchantable timber for solid 
wood production is legally defined and regulated by the license of Forest Utilization. 
The latest regulation is quoted below: 
 
Minister of Forestry Regulation Number: P. 11/Menhut-II/2009:  Silvicultural System 
on the Area of Business License on Wooden Forest Products Utilization in Production 
Forest Area. 
 
Article 8. 
Cutting cycle and diameter limit of cutting referred to in paragraph (2) is: 
 
a. On dry land forest land: 
(1) 30 (thirty) years with diameter limit ≥ 40 cm (forty centimeters) in production 
forest area or convertible forest area, and ≥ 50cm (fifty centimeters) in limited 
production forests with the TPTI or TR silviculture system. 
(2) 25 (twenty five) years for the TPTJ silvicultural system with 3 (three) meters line 
plantation of ex clear-cutting forest with diameter limit ≥ 40 cm (forty centimeters). 
 
b. 40 (forty) years for diameter limit ≥ 30 cm (thirty centimeters) in swamp forests . 
 
The original calculations done by Forest Carbon were designed to be conservative. 
This approach is being re-addressed throughout the document and all calculations 
are now being based on “accurate data” with an appropriate confidence interval 
assigned. The baseline and PD will be updated accordingly. 
Validator Response: The response and updated final PD is adequate to close this 
NCR.  The diameter limit of 30cm was applied and was demonstrated to be  
consistent with the methodology, in particular Condition J outlined in section 3 (i.e. it 
is assumed that the size class and species of trees sold in the local timber market 
would have been extracted in the project area prior to clearing). The Additional text 
and changes to the calculator were sufficient to close this issue. 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 61 
 
 
 
 
NCR Number 2010.18 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: In accordance with the methodology and the particular conditions of the 
project, the estimate of peat burn depth should be 34cm. While correctly referred to 
in the PD, in Annex 11 it is listed as 30cm and subsequently the calculations are 
incorrect. Please use the correct estimate of peat depth burned in all calculations as 
specified in the methodology. 
Proponent Response: The Baseline calculations have been corrected to use a peat 
burn depth of 34 cm as specified in the methodology. 
The Baseline calculation spreadsheet is attached for reference. Please see Excel 
Worksheet tab “Peat Burning-BL” Cell E-3 for Depth of peat burned. 
Validator Response: The changes made are adequate to close this NCR. 
 
NCR Number 2010.19 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please specify a commitment and timeframe for measuring peat bulk 
density in the project area. 
Proponent Response - The default value for peat bulk density 0.14 g/cm3 will be 
used in baseline calculations for years 1 and 2. Then in year 3 (July 2011 – June 
2012), this value will be replaced with a project-specific value and the baseline will 
be updated to reflect this change in accordance with the Methodology. 
  
Note that peat bulk density was already surveyed and assessed to be 0.1505 g/cm3 
in the single belowground strata defined for the project and met the uncertainty 
requirements of the methodology. However, the additional survey of peat bulk 
density will be carried out to better represent potential variation in above-ground 
strata. 
  
Following baseline update in year 3, carbon stocks will be added or subtracted from 
the total project carbon stock as warranted to account for data improvements as 
allowed by the Methodology. 
Validator Response: This response is adequate given that the measurement of peat 
bulk density was not undertaken across all project strata. The commitment to extend 
the collection of bulk density measurements across strata is consistent with the 
requirements of the methodology and is sufficient to close this NCR.   
 
NCR Number 2010.20 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please quote and use the correct default value for peat bulk density in all 
calculations. 
Proponent Response:  The default value for peat bulk density 0.14 g/cm3 will be 
used in baseline calculations for years 1 and 2. Then in year 3 (July 2011 – June 
2012), this value will be replaced with a project-specific value and the baseline will 
be updated to reflect this change in accordance with the Methodology. 
  
Note that peat bulk density was already surveyed and assessed to be 0.1505 g/cm3 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 62 
in the single belowground strata defined for the project and met the uncertainty 
requirements of the methodology. However, the additional survey of peat bulk 
density will be carried out to better represent potential variation in above-ground 
strata. 
  
Following baseline update in year 3, carbon stocks will be added or subtracted from 
the total project carbon stock as warranted to account for data improvements as 
allowed by the Methodology. 
Validator Response: As reported and documented in the fieldwork report, the 
fieldwork conducted found that the average peat bulk density was 0.154 g/m
3
. The 
fieldwork approach taken was consistent with scientific protocols, however the 
selection of the number of samples appears to have no basis. The existing transects 
were utilised with three cores taken per transect (3 x 8 = 24 sampling locations). 
Rings were taken every 50cm down each core and so samples ranged depending on 
the depth of peat found at the core. 764 peat bulk density measurements were 
taken at various depths along the profile. A simple average was taken to arrive at 
0.154 g/m
3 
which represents the bulk density 0-100cm. This depth is consistent with 
the maximum depth stipulated in the methodology and is within the ranges 
presented in Table 2 (pg 37) of the approved methodology. However the approach 
did not result in peat bulk density measurements that were representative of all 
defined strata. Therefore the client reverted to the use of the default peat bulk 
density figure (NCR VCS 2010.53) with a commitment to conduct measurements in 
each forest strata. This is consistent with the requirements of the methodology.  
 
NCR Number 2010.21 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please remove estimates of CO
2
 emissions from aboveground tree biomass 
burning in the calculation spreadsheet as this is not an included gas in methodology 
as specified in Table 4 of the PD.  
Proponent Response: Email exchange (attached) between Carly Green and Leslie 
Bolick confirmed that current carbon accounting follows the approved Methodology 
for calculating CO
2
 emissions associated with above ground tree biomass burning. 
This will be more clearly presented in the final VCS Project Document.  
 
To summarize, with reference to the Methodology page numbers: estimation of 
Baseline net GHG emissions (Eq.1) page 21 includes the sum of carbon stock changes 
in aboveground biomass, a component of which is biomass burning (Eq. 3) page 21 
which is derived as the sum of CO
2
, N
2
0 and CH
4
 emissions from burning (Eq. 12) 
page 25. 
Validator Response: Further clarification of the estimation approach by the project 
proponent and documentation in the excel spreadsheet was sufficient to close this 
NCR. 
 
NCR Number 2010.22 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please undertake the uncertainty assessment in accordance with the 
selected methodology. 
Proponent Response: Uncertainty has been quantified as reported below and has 
been noted in the Baseline Calculation spreadsheet for the following parameters: 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 63 
 
φ wood density 
B
logged 
(representing mean merchantable wood volume) and  
R 
ARB,it
 (increase in carbon stocks due to palm oil sequestration) 
 
Uncertainty was not assessed for peat bulk density (default value used) or Non-tree 
biomass (carbon pool shown to be insignificant and not included in baseline 
estimation). 
 
Uncertainty was assessed to be zero for the deforestation rate parameters (e.g. 
A
cleared
) and MC
B,AG_tree,it
 (mean carbon stocks in aboveground tree biomass) and 
conservative values used for these parameters as presented in the discussion below. 
 
φ wood density 
 
literature value used (Reyes, Brown, Chapman, & Lugo, 1992) representing wood 
density for tropical Asia. Mean = 0.57, SE = 0.007, n = 428. Uncertainty 
(90%CI/mean*100) = 2.03% 
 
B
logged 
(representing mean merchantable wood volume)  
 
Logging site data from Mawas used ("Logging gap data Mawas calculation sheet 
23jun08-1.xls") 
Mean = 0.36, SE = 0.0176, n=93. Uncertainty (90%CI/mean*100) = 8.04% 
 
R 
ARB,it
 (increase in carbon stocks due to palm oil sequestration) 
 
Palm oil growth curves were constructed to estimate annual carbon accumulation as 
presented in the spreadsheet Oil Palm Growth Model ...xls” which shows the 90% CI 
and calculated uncertainty of the carbon accumulation parameter in each year. 
 
Uncertainty was calculated across palm oil growth cohorts and years in the Baseline 
Calculation spreadsheet...xls.  
 
Uncertainty is low overall in the palm oil growth parameter (<4% over the 30-year 
project life) but exceeds the 10% precision target in years 3-8. Baseline palm oil 
carbon accumulation associated with these years is low compared to other carbon 
pools such that the project meets the allowable uncertainty under this methodology 
of +/- 10% CREDD, at the 90% confidence level. (meth p.98). However, in order to 
build in conservativeness, estimated carbon accumulation associated with palm oil 
growth has been increased in years 3-8 and an uncertainty of zero is assumed as 
allowed by the methodology (p. 52): 
 
"a precision target of a 90% confidence interval equal to or less than 10% of the 
mean recorded value shall be targeted..." 
 
"Alternatively, (indisputably) conservative estimates can also be used instead of 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 64 
uncertainties, provided that they are based on verifiable literature sources or expert 
judgement. In this case the uncertainty is assumed to be zero." 
 
uncertainty in deforestation rate 
 
The proponents would like to clarify several points related to deforestation rate 
assessment in this methodology: 
 
1. Since this methodology is only applicable to projects where deforestation is 
planned and projected to occur within 10 years of the project start date 
(Applicability Condition D), uncertainty in deforestation rate is assumed to be zero. 
(p.53). 
 
2. The rate of deforestation must be estimated from “a valid verifiable plan by the 
agent of deforestation” (p. 13). Recognizing that in Kalimantan, written plans for 
land conversion may not be available, one of the authors of the methodology 
qualified that a “valid verifiable plan” may consist of either plantation permit records 
or records of previous land use conversion and that GIS analysis of actual plantation 
development by the agent of deforestation provides sufficient record of previous 
land use conversion (Harris, pers comm.). 
 
3. Project proponents have assumed an uncertainty of zero in deforestation rate as 
allowed by the methodology and have presented a conservative annual conversion 
rate of conversion in the baseline scenario based on GIS analysis of previous 
conversion by the baseline agent. 
 
To demonstrate the conservativeness the following assessment is presented to 
supplement the discussion of deforestation rate in the Baseline Report and VCS PD. 
 
On other PT BEST parcels, the average annual rate of conversion was 2030 ha/yr in 
year 1 and 2868 ha/yr in year 2 after which concessions were reaching full 
development (74% by year 2 and 88% by year 3) (Table 12 Baseline Report).  
 
Rapid build-out on relatively small concessions limits conversion rate analysis based 
on annual area of conversion. In order to extend this analysis to future scenarios, the 
cumulative proportion of buildout is assessed and presented here: 
 
 
 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 65 
 
 
On average, 31.1% of the land area in concessions were developed by year 1 and 
74.1% by year 2. Applying these average percentages to RR concessions we get the 
following expected rate of conversion: 
 
 
 
 
There is a moderate amount of variation and uncertainty associated with these 
averages, so to incorporate this uncertainty, accounting for standard deviation in the 
data, the low expected average % development (18.4% in year 1, 57.3% in year 2 etc) 
was applied to RR concessions to quantify minimum expected rate of development 
(table below) 
 
 
 
This rate accounts for the uncertainty around the mean proportion of area 
converted. From these data its evident the rate of development is not linear, peaking 
around year 2 then tapering close to build-out. We apply a linear rate because it 
makes baseline calculations more straight-forward and transparent and we don’t 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 66 
have enough data to build a reliable non-linear function. By delaying expected 
plantation development in the south (concessions 3 and 4) and by applying below 
the minimum expected conversion rate in year 1 across all years as a linear function 
with no peak in development, the baseline scenario shows longer, slower conversion 
that would be expected even at the maximum level of uncertainty. 
 
 
 
 
Validator Response: This response and additional information presented in the PD, 
specifically references supporting the justification for various uncertainty parameters 
and built in conservative estimates was adequate to close out this NCR. 
 
NCR Number 2010.23 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Annex 4c - Field Protocol Manual does not list the key elements of a SOP. 
Details of how the key field measurements were/are undertaken is required by the 
selected methodology, including for example how crown and tree height 
measurements taken; how trees were selected for crown and tree height 
measurement, how DBH measurements taken and standardised amongst field staff, 
how multi stemmed trees were treated. 
Proponent Response: The Carbon Assessment Field Protocol SOP has been included 
in the updated VCS PD and is provided as an attachment to this response. 
The SOP includes details of how key field measurements were taken including: how 
tree crown and tree height measurements were taken, how trees were selected for 
crown and tree height measurement, how DBH measurements were taken and 
standardized among field staff, and how multi-stemmed trees were treated. 
Validator Response: The improvements made to the SOP document will assist in 
verification of the fieldwork. These additions are sufficient to close this NCR.  
 
NIR Number 2010.24 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The methodology and the VCS require that the project maps be provided in 
digital format. Please provide in an appropriate digital format.  
Proponent Response:  As required by the methodology, Section 4. Project Boundary, 
data have been geo-referenced and provided in digital format (see attached .zip file). 
To facilitate review, both KML and ArcGIS shapefile formats have been provided. 
Data delivered also include stratification layers as requested by email. 
 
Files include: 
1. Carbon Accounting Area (CAA) boundary 
2. “Ijin Lokasi” Planned Oil Palm Estates in Central Kalimantan (basis for CAA 
boundary) 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 67 
3. Former Planned Oil Palm Concession boundaries in CAA (Baseline stratification) 
4. Land Cover Classification 2009 in CAA (Project initial conditions stratification)* 
 
*Note that in the final revision to Baseline calculations, Wetlands International peat 
mapping was not used in stratification. Both above and below ground carbon stock 
calculations derive from the Land Cover Classification 2009 data as described in the 
updated VCS PD. 
Validator Response: The files provided were adequate to close this issue. 
 
NIR Number 2010.25 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide additional information that explains the non-AFOLU 
component of this project. 
Proponent Response: Quoted below from our VCS PD 1.6 (end) (version dated April 2010) 
 
“VCS project crediting period: A 30-year crediting period will be used for this project. 
This consists of a non-AFOLU component having a 10-year crediting period to be 
renewed two times and an AFOLU component having a 30-year crediting period” 
 
Was incorrect and will be corrected and amended to the following. 
 
“VCS project crediting period: A 30-year crediting period will be used for this project” 
Validator Response: The response and changes to the VCS PD are adequate to close 
this issue.  
 
NIR Number 2010.26 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please explain why the areas listed in the various government 
authorisations provided in Annex 2 are not consistent. Also step 6 of the proof of 
ownership process is incomplete as it states ”... YZ office of the XYZ for formal 
approval”. Please ensure that this is complete.  
Proponent Response: In order to clarify any confusion, please see the below list of 
documents which show the original land amount of 101,730 ha to the current 
amount of 89,185 ha which has been consistent in all documents since 2009. 
(attached) In the early stages various parts of the local, provincial or national 
government may have had slightly differing maps however the MOF (national) has 
the jurisdiction on this issue and has been consistent in all decrees. It is normal for 
there to be discrepancies between local and national records since local agencies 
often do not have digital maps. Additionally, it is not uncommon for the area to 
change throughout the process as the various departments sometimes have 
conflicting agendas (production vs planologi vs conservation). Ultimately, the final 
area and an official map will be issued and all references to project boundaries and 
size will be changed to reflect such. The carbon accounting area will not be affected.  
 
Initial Area Verification letter dated Oct 10, 2008 regional office of Forest Area 
Mapping – 101,730 Ha (this letter had NOT deducted the  14,197 as in SK481 
although later all official letters did so. 
Minister’s decree letter SK 481 dated subtracting the northern wedge to palm oil  – 
14, 197 Ha 
Leaving a balance of 87,533 (this area changed slightly to 89,185 after the national 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 68 
government used correct maps. 
Ministers decree SK617 Dated Oct 5, 2009 – allocating 89.185 ha for RE use 
Ministers  decree S958 – (SP1) Dated Dec 29, 2009  asking Rimba Raya to perform 
UKL UPL on 89,185 ha  
Ministers decree S.291 (SP2) Dated June 15, 2010 approval of UKL UPL listing 89,185 
ha. 
  
”... YZ office of the XYZ for formal approval”. Has been amended to read 
“"Environment Agency of Central Kalimantan Province" 
Validator Response: The response, additional files provided and changes to the VCS 
PD are adequate to close this issue. 
 
NIR Number 2010.27 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The PD states that the major carbon pools subject to the project activity are 
peat and aboveground biomass. It states that long-lived wood products are also 
included. It states that aboveground non-tree biomass (as well as litter and 
deadwood) is conservatively excluded.  The methodology states that aboveground 
non-tree biomass is a major carbon pool that is listed as included. Please confirm 
that the methodology allows for the exclusion of pools it lists as ‘major carbon pool 
subject to the project activity'. 
Proponent Response: The methodology uses the A/R Tool titled “Tool for testing 
significance of GHG emissions in A/R CDM project activities” to exclude litter from 
the list of major carbon pools subject to project activity. See methodology footnote 
page 7: 
 
According to field measurements conducted by the project proponent in 57 plots 
using standard operating procedures as outlined in AR-AM0007, the litter pool 
represents approximately 0.01% of the total aboveground carbon stocks in peat 
swamp forests (0.009 ± 0.0017 t C ha-1); therefore a decrease in this carbon pool 
does not result in a significant GHG emission. Sulistiyanto (2004) also showed that 
litter makes up 2.4% of the above and belowground tree biomass in both mixed 
swamp and low pole peat forests in Central Kalimantan. If the REDD project were an 
A/R project, the litter pool would be deemed an insignificant emission (<5% of total 
emissions) using the CDM approved tool titled “ 
 
The same tool was used to test for significance of the non-tree biomass carbon pool 
in Rimba Raya. This tool states that  “The sum of decreases in carbon pools and 
increases in emissions that may be neglected shall be less than 5% of the total 
decreases in carbon pools and increases in emissions, or less than 5% of net 
anthropogenic removals by sinks, whichever is lower.”  
Non-tree biomass was surveyed in 150 small plots in the project and was found to 
contribute 3.72 – 5.60% to total aboveground biomass representing <0.5% of GHG 
emissions. Therefore, this carbon pool was deemed to be an insignificant emission 
and was conservatively excluded from Baseline calculations. This assessment is 
presented in the field biomass survey section of the Baseline Report. Please refer to 
attached document and Excel spreadsheet (Tabs 1,2,3) of field data and non-tree 
biomass assessment. 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 69 
Validator Response: The response to this NIR indicates that the project proponent 
estimated this pool and then conservatively excluded it based on di minimus 
approach. Therefore, this carbon pool was deemed to be an insignificant emission 
and was conservatively excluded from Baseline calculations. This assessment is 
presented in the field biomass survey section of the Rimba Raya Baseline Report. The 
project proponent has demonstrated that the aboveground non-tree biomass pool is 
de minimus and in conformance with VCS 2007.1 Tool for AFOLU Methodological 
Issues.  
 
NIR Number 2010.28 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide a (digital) copy of the Wetlands International Peat depth 
map that was used for stratification of the project area. 
Proponent Response –  
Please see attached Wetlands International peat distribution data:  
1) .zip file of GIS data layer containing ArcView shapefile of peatlands in the project 
area 
2) .jpg file of the digital map of regional peatlands 
Validator Response: Files provided are sufficient to close this NIR. 
 
NIR Number 2010.29 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please justify why leakage stratification was not conducted in accordance 
with the selected methodology. 
Proponent Response - Leakage stratification was conducted in accordance with the 
selected methodology and this is clarified in the revised sections on Leakage in the 
Monitoring Plan, the VCS PD and Monitoring Report. Briefly, stratification is 
performed in two stages of the monitoring process: first in Step 3 to focus the 
leakage analysis and then in Step 7 to refine impact assessment for carbon stock and 
emissions changes in accordance with the Methodology. 
Validator Response: The approach presented by the proponent is consistent with 
the text presented in the final approved version of the selected methodology. The 
response provided is sufficient to close this NIR. 
 
NIR Number 2010.30 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please confirm that the identified agent of deforestation only operates in 
Central Kalimantan. In accordance with the methodology the area owned by the 
deforestation agent within the bounds of the country in which the project is 
established needs to be monitored.  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 70 
Proponent Response: Leakage monitoring is conducted in accordance with the 
methodology. Five main points outline leakage monitoring: 
1. PT BEST operates plantations only in Central Kalimantan 
2. All existing PT. BEST concessions will be monitored for development and/or 
expansion 
3. Any new PT. BEST concession in Indonesia will be monitored 
4. Unpermitted plantation expansion will be monitored within PT BEST’s 
infrastructure  
5. The area of activity shifting leakage and carbon impact will be assessed and 
reported at each verification 
 
These points are described in a revised section of the VCS PD. 
Validator Response: This response indicates that that the agent of deforestation has 
operations throughout Indonesia, however its palm oil plantations are limited to the 
concessions presented in Table 7 and Figure 18a of the PD. 
The concessions numbered 14 and 15 are noted as being isolated from the palm oil 
processing plant by the lack of roading and circumstances have made them less 
viable than those in the 100km radius. Analysis of recent satellite images of the area 
supported the proponent’s comments about accessibility in this area. 
The additional information provided by the proponent presented the approach to 
leakage monitoring with increased clarity. The approach taken is in conformance 
with the methodology and the more intensive monitoring of the areas within 100km 
of the palm oil processing facility is in excess of the requirements of the standard 
and the methodology.  The response provided is sufficient to close this NIR. 
 
NIR Number 2010.31 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide an accuracy assessment with a completed confusion matrix 
to validate the accuracy of the mapping.    
Proponent Response - Please see attached Accuracy Assessment report including 
confusion matrix for land cover map validation. 
Validator Response: The reported accuracy in the assessment report was considered 
appropriate for a landsat-based classification at this spatial scale.  The accuracy 
calculations used are sound.  A check of a subset of provided uncertainty calculations 
and kappa statistics lead to identical results as those reported. 
The proponents classification scheme has some difficulty distinguishing between 
'lightly' and 'heavily' degraded peat swamp forest.  This may be due to subjectivity in 
the definition of these classes. Most of the misclassifications are with closely related 
types and don't show any problematic biases.  Given the relative sizes of each cover 
type, these misclassifications were not considered a major problem. 
One potential issue relates to the checking of landsat accuracy against manually 
interpreted air photos, rather than field verified ground control points.  While field 
verified points are preferable, it is common to perform accuracy assessment in the 
way presented by the proponent, as the cost of visiting enough field sites for a 
sufficient assessment (hundreds of points) can be large and impractical. The 
language presented in the selected methodology allows for the sort of checking 
presented in the assessment report.  The method used assumes that the person 
interpreting the photos identified the correct land cover class for each photo.  The 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 71 
methodology states that “A subset of image plots should be selected randomly and 
interpreted independently by a different analyst.”  Confirmation that a subset of 
these points were checked by an independent analyst was provided. 
 
NIR Number 2010.32 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Annex 6 is referred to as the Preliminary QC Plan so it is not clear if the plan 
is finished. Please confirm that this is the final QA/QC document for validation. 
Proponent Response - Annex 6_Draft 1.2 is referred to as the Preliminary QC Plan 
and it is finished to be considered as the final QA/QC document for validation. 
Attached, please find the final version of the QA/QC Plan version 1.2. 
Validator Response: The final version of the QA/QC Plan appears to be more 
complete, however there is no reference to the VCS 2007.1 requirement that “The 
project proponent shall keep all documents and records in a secure and retrievable 
manner for at least two years after the end of the project crediting period.”  
See NCR 2010.47. With the additional changes made and reported in NCR 2010.47, 
this NCR is now closed. 
 
NIR Number 2010.33 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The carbon stock represented in Annex 11 is not clearly referenced and the 
calculations for this stock are not provided. There is also a comment that states 
"need more specific data". Please provide the spreadsheet of the calculations used 
to arrive at aboveground biomass estimates.   
Proponent Response - The carbon stocks shown in the Final Baseline Report (Annex 
11) are from two different biomass assessments; those relating to the ground plots 
and those from the aerial plot assessment of biomass.   The results of the ground 
plots provided a method to validate the aerial plots and to gain information about 
the biomass variance within the lightly degraded peat swamp class.  This variance 
was used to determine the required number of plots using the IPCC recommended 
guidance.  Lastly the ground plots provided a means to gain data on the relationship 
between canopy diameter and DBH and a regression formula was developed that 
allowed DBH to be predicted for the aerial plots.  Therefore, there are two different 
spreadsheets, one for ground plots and one for aerial plots.  Since the results of the 
aerial plots were actually used to estimate the baseline emissions, the associated 
spreadsheet for those plots will be attached to the email with this response.   The 
formulas for canopy area, DBH, and biomass were all estimated in JMP statistical 
software from SAS, and its associated spreadsheet has been converted into MS Excel 
but does not have the formulas built in.  The equation that was used to estimate 
biomass from aerial plot data is Equation (6) in Annex 11 (Final Baseline GHG 
Estimate).        
Validator Response: The project proponent provided additional information and an 
updated excel spreadsheet which were thoroughly reviewed and finally shown to 
have correctly calculated the ex-ante estimates. The response is adequate to close 
this NIR. 
 
 
 
 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 72 
NIR Number 2010.34 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please provide the calculation tool used to develop the palm oil growth 
estimates. 
Proponent Response - See tool attached. 
 
Validator Response: The project proponent provided an excel spreadsheet that 
clearly demonstrated the application of the model described in the PD. This 
spreadsheet was correctly integrated in to the overall project calculation 
spreadsheet and the response is adequate to close this NIR. 
 
NIR Number 2010.35 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The life of the palm oil plantation is said to be equivalent to the life of the 
project, however the equation used only provides biomass growth estimates to 20 
years and the project life is specified as 30 years.  Please describe/justify how the 
selected palm oil growth curve was extrapolated to 30 years.    
Proponent Response - Data shows that the productive life cycle of a single crop of 
palm oil is 15-25 years. The palm reaches maturity at 15 years and productivity 
begins to decline dramatically, eventually dying between year 25-35. Between the 
period of 20-30 years, it can be assumed that it becomes an ineffective above 
ground carbon sink and most likely begins to produce emissions as the tree dies.  
 
For purposes of baseline calculation the most accurate figure of 20 years has been 
used given that after this date, the use of pesticides and fertilizer must be 
dramatically increased while yield decrease, making the tree economically unviable. 
Additionally, proponents have reverse extrapolated a slow decline in the rate of 
biomass accumulation and carbon sequestration, when in reality the rate either 
decreases dramatically, reaches zero and goes into retrograde as the tree dies or is 
cut and burned or left to decay.  
 
Additionally, at the end of the life cycle of one crop and in preparation for another 
crop, the soil is turned and fertilized intensively or allowed to lie fallow for up to five 
years in preparation for a new crop. This clearly involves significant emissions which 
are conservatively excluded when calculating continuous biomass 
accumulation/reductions and carbon sequestration/emissions beyond the 
productive 20 year life cycle. 
 
See Annex in NIR_34 for background support data on these published values. 
Validator Response: The response and updated excel spreadsheet provided by the 
project proponent demonstrates the approach taken to set the asymptote at the 
maximum growth year (i.e. Year 20) and allow the model to estimate a slight 
increase in growth (almost stagnant growth) over the next 10 years. Given the 
available evidence the validator is satisfied that the approach is conservative and the 
response is adequate to close this NIR. 
 
 
 
 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 73 
NIR Number 2010.36 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: The life of the palm oil plantation is said to be equivalent to the project life. 
However there is no justification for this given in the PD. Please justify the life of 
palm oil plantations in the region of the project. 
Proponent Response - The productive life of palm oil is 15-25 years at which time 
the palm becomes unproductive and is most likely cut and burned or simply cut and 
left to decay in situ in preparation of another new crop. The total life of an oil palm is 
said to be 25-35 years during which time it will reach its maximum life span and 
begin to die. Therefore, within these ranges, the life cycle of palm oil closely equates 
to the 30 year project life.  
See Annex in NIR_34 for background support data on these published values. 
Validator Response: The response indicates that approach taken to deduct palm oil 
plantation growth over the 30 year project period is conservative. It is likely that 
within the 30 year period the palm oil would be burned (or left to decay).  The 
validator is satisfied that the approach is conservative and the response is adequate 
to close this NIR. 
 
OFI Number 2010.37 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Figure 3, on page 11 of the PD should have the correct Project Management 
Zone boundary overlaid on the map for consistency. 
Proponent Response - All figures in the Baseline Report and VCS PD, including Figure 
3 on page 11 of the PD, have been updated to show the correct Project Management 
Zone boundary on the map for consistency. 
Please see attached maps (Figure 2 and Figure 3 in the updated Baseline Report) 
showing correct project boundaries. 
Validator Response: The response and changes made to the final version of the PD 
and Baseline report is adequate to close this OFI. 
 
OFI Number 2010.38 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Within the PD, Section 2.4, Step 2 Stratify project area refers to Section 
1.7.6 which is not numbered in the PD. Either update numbering to reflect this 
reference or remove reference to avoid confusion.   
Proponent Response - The VCS PD has been thoroughly reviewed and updated. 
Numbering on this section has been corrected. 
Validator Response: The response and changes made to the final version of the PD is 
adequate to close this OFI. 
 
OFI Number 2010.39 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Refer to the methodology to justify why stratification by peat depth is not 
required. 
Proponent Response - As part of Baseline stratification Step 1, the Methodology 
states: 
“Stratification of the project area by peat depth is important when depth in parts or 
all of the project area is less than the depth that is projected to be lost in the 
baseline scenario over time... If peat depth across the project area is greater than 
the depth of peat lost via subsidence and burning in the baseline scenario over the 
project life, then it is assumed that there is an adequate supply of carbon in peat in 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 74 
the project area to sustain the assumed baseline scenario and stratification by peat 
depth is unnecessary.”     
 
Current literature on peat subsidence suggests that drained tropical peat in SE Asia 
subsides at an initial rate of 4.5 cm yr-1, translating into a loss of approximately 1.35 
m over a 30-year project life. (Though Applicability Condition F limits peat drainage 
emissions in the baseline scenario to a net peat drainage depth of no more than 1 
meter). And the methodology sets peat burn depth to 0.34 m. 
 
In Rimba Raya, peat depth exceeds the depth of peat that could have been lost to 
subsidence and burning in the Baseline scenario, therefore stratification by peat 
depth is not required by the Methodology. Peat depth was measured at regular 100-
meter intervals on 16,000 meters of transect across the project area. Peat depth 
averaged 4.3 meters exceeded 2 meters in all 160 locations measured. This data is 
presented in the two Carbon Survey Assessment reports (see attached). 
Validator Response: The response is adequate to close this OFI. 
 
OFI Number 2010.40 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Please refer the reader to the Section 2.5 of the PD where evidence/details 
of the application of the “Combined tool to identify the baseline scenario and 
demonstrate additionality in A/R CDM Project Activities” is presented.  
Proponent Response - The updated Baseline Report and the updated VCS PD include 
a section that details the application of the “Combined tool to identify the baseline 
scenario and demonstrate additionality in A/R CDM Project Activities”. Both 
documents refer to the section on additionality in the Table of Contents. 
 
In the Baseline Report this section is “PROJECT ADDITIONALITY & BASELINE 
SCENARIO” and in the VCS PD it is “2.5 Description of how the emissions of GHG by 
source in baseline scenario are reduced below those that would have occurred in the 
absence of project activity (assessment and demonstration of additionality).” 
 
A copy of this section is provided. Please see attached document “Project 
Additionality and Baseline Scenario”.  
Validator Response: This OFI and the project proponents response was completed 
prior to the final approval of the methodology. The final version of the approved 
methodology required the use of the VCS ”Tool for the Demonstration and 
Assessment of Additionality in VCS Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) 
Project Activities”. Subsequently this tool is correctly applied and presented in the 
final versions of the VCS PD and Baseline report.   
 
OFI Number 2010.41 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: To ensure consistency the net avoided emissions should be recorded 
without rounding throughout the document. 
Proponent Response - The net emissions reductions have been recorded 
consistently throughout the document. 
Validator Response: The changes made to the latest version of the PD indicate this 
OFI has been completed and closed.  

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 75 
 
OFI Number 2010.42 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Whilst the elements of the VCS standard have been met as far as adaptive 
management to stakeholder consultation outcomes, there appears to be a general 
lack of understanding about the distribution of benefits amongst the various 
stakeholders. This should be addressed.  
Proponent Response - Addressing the distribution of benefits to the various 
stakeholders has been readdressed with greater detail with regard specifically to the 
communities (via WE) and to OFI via an additional memorandum of understanding. 
We have in our next year’s operational plan, ongoing interactions and opportunities 
for further education on what specific benefits stakeholders can assume to receive.  
Validator Response: The MOU signed between Infinite EARTH and OFI provided to 
the validator has closed out the source of confusion which lead to the issuance of 
this finding.  
 
OFI Number 2010.43 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Present an adaptive management process to accommodate changes to the 
(yet to be approved) selected methodology. 
Proponent Response – N/A 
 
Validator Response: The OFI was closed as the methodology was approved.  
 
OFI Number 2010.44 of 56 Dated 13
th
 July 2010 
Finding: Conduct a thorough review of the PD document and correct spelling, table 
of contents etc. The quality of information should be improved though the addition 
of relevant summaries of key relevant findings from each of the referred annexes to 
ensure that the PD itself presents the information required to achieve validation.  
Proponent Response - The VCS PD has been thoroughly reviewed to correct spelling 
and formatting including a revised table of contents. The quality of information has 
been improved by adding relevant summaries of key findings from each of the 
annexes with the aim of ensuring that the PD itself presents the information 
required to achieve validation. 
Validator Response: The corrections and improvements made by the project 
proponent through this validation are sufficient to close out this OFI. 
 
OFI Number 2010.45 of 56 Dated 20
th
 January 2011 
Finding: Strengthen the project planning by updating the project schedule to include 
project activities related to the forest management plans, fire management plan and 
the monitoring plan. 
Proponent Response: In accordance with the Voluntary Carbon Standard 2007.1 
section 5.13, the project proponent is committed to storing all project data in a 
secure and retrievable manner for at least two years after the end of the project 
crediting period. Project data will be stored and regularly maintained on redundant 
external hard drives at onsite (Pangkalan Bun) and offsite (Jakarta) locations and 
secured with backup software using standard protocols. Data storage locations are 
listed below. Any changes in these locations will be listed in annual verification 
reports. Project data will be managed by the Rimba Raya Conservation (RRC) project 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 76 
coordinator in conjunction with the GIS manager to ensure security, accessibility and 
long-term storage. In order to facilitate project management and long-term 
accounting, all primary data outputs supporting annual verification including the 
spatial database, will be stored and maintained for each 10-year crediting period. 
 
Onsite data storage 
Jl. Hasanudin, No. 10 Blk 
Pangakalan Bun Kalimantan Tengah, 74111  
Phone: 0532 24778 
Fax: 0532 27506 
 
Offsite data storage 
Mayapada Tower, 11th Floor 
Jl. Jenderal Sudirman Kav.28, 
Jakarta Selatan, 12920 
Tel: +62-21-5289-7446 
Fax: +62-21-5289-7399  
 
Validator Response: The response to this OFI was adequate. Data was sited at the 
Pangakalan Bun offices during the site visit. 
 
NCR Number 2010.46 of 56 Dated 21
st
 January 2011 
Finding: In accordance with the standard a commitment should be made and details 
given relating to data storage for at least 2 years after the project period ends. 
Proponent Response:  In accordance with the Voluntary Carbon Standard 2007.1 
section 5.13, the project proponent is committed to storing all project data in a 
secure and retrievable manner for at least two years after the end of the project 
crediting period. Project data will be stored and regularly maintained on redundant 
external hard drives at onsite (Pangkalan Bun) and offsite (Jakarta) locations and 
secured with backup software using standard protocols. Data storage locations are 
listed below. Any changes in these locations will be listed in annual verification 
reports. Project data will be managed by the Rimba Raya Conservation (RRC) project 
coordinator in conjunction with the GIS manager to ensure security, accessibility and 
long-term storage. In order to facilitate project management and long-term 
accounting, all primary data outputs supporting annual verification including the 
spatial database, will be stored and maintained for each 10-year crediting period. 
 
Onsite data storage 
Jl. Hasanudin, No. 10 Blk 
Pangakalan Bun Kalimantan Tengah, 74111  
Phone: 0532 24778 
Fax: 0532 27506 
 
Offsite data storage 
Mayapada Tower, 11th Floor 
Jl. Jenderal Sudirman Kav.28, 
Jakarta Selatan, 12920 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 77 
Tel: +62-21-5289-7446 
Fax: +62-21-5289-7399 
Validator Response: The response is adequate to close this NCR. 
 
NCR Number 2010.47 of 56 Dated 21
st
 January 2011 
Finding: Please ensure that the monitoring plan accuracy reflects the requirements 
set out in the selected methodology. 
Proponent Response:   
The monitoring plan has been updated to reflect the same level of detail as the 
monitoring report so that it meets the requirements of the selected methodology, 
including steps and equations used in monitoring calculations. 
Validator Response: The response and changes to the monitoring plan are adequate 
to close this NCR. 
 
NCR Number 2010.48 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: The Methodology requires that proponents collect "high resolution (10-15 
cm per pixel) imagery in systematically spaced, overlapping parallel transects evenly 
distributed over the project boundary where land cover change is expected to 
occur". Please provide evidence that the resolution requirement of 10-15 cm per 
pixel has been met. Also, Figure 13 on p 29 raised concerns on the part of the 
technical reviewer that imagery was not taken in "systematically spaced, overlapping 
parallel transects evenly distributed over the project boundary", as required by the 
Methodology. Please provide evidence that this requirement has been met. 
Proponent Response: Low altitude aerial photography collected for the project area 
meets the resolution requirement of 10-15 cm per pixel as described in the VCS PD 
p.25. Photos were taken in systematically spaced parallel transects evenly 
distributed over the project area as described in AIM STEP 3 of the Baseline Report 
p58. Overlapping photos were not acquired since stereo image pairs were not 
needed to conduct 2-dimensional analysis of tree crown areas, as described in AIM 
STEP 4 of the Baseline Report p. 58. Biomass estimation based on tree crown area 
(2D analysis) was selected over biomass estimation based on tree crown area and 
tree height (3D analysis) as allowed by the Methodology AIM STEP 2 p. 22 which 
states “Create a relationship between a combination of the height and/or crown 
area and the biomass of each tree observed.” 
Validator Response: The response to this NCR provided improved clarity of the 
approach taken and is adequate to demonstrate compliance with the selected 
methodology. 
 
NCR Number 2010.49 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: The proponent has reported that "plots that were overlaid on rivers were 
moved north to nearby forest areas, as long as moving the plot didn’t exceed 50 m." 
As long as riparian areas are included in the carbon accounting area, they cannot be 
excluded from sampling. Please provide further details on which rivers were 
excluded from sampling and whether or not a 100m buffer around these rivers has 
been removed from the carbon accounting area. 
Proponent Response: The protocol described was not carried out for the Rimba Raya 
project since no major rivers fall inside the project area, therefore rivers were not 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 78 
excluded from sampling.  
 
To confirm this, aerial photo data were reviewed in the vicinity of the only two 
seasonally navigable rivers inside the project area, Baung and Sigintung. North-south 
flight lines only intersect these predominantly east-west rivers in several instances. 
Random selection only captured one of these aerial photos for aerial plot 
establishment. As shown in the figures provided, this plot was sampled and tree 
crowns were delineated in the same manner as other plots that did not cross a river. 
Also note this river is not open water, but appears as a narrow gap in the peat 
swamp forest canopy, which is characteristic of intact forest in Rimba Raya. 
Validator Response: The response to this NCR provided improved clarity of the 
approach taken and is adequate to demonstrate a reasonable sampling regime for 
the project area.  
 
NCR Number 2010.50 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: Above-ground non-tree biomass is a required, as opposed to optional, pool 
under the Methodology. The CDM tool used by the proponent is not referred to by 
the Methodology. Therefore, above-ground non-tree biomass must be accounted for 
under the Methodology. 
Proponent Response: The project proponents would like to clarify several points 
related to the treatment of non-tree biomass to demonstrate that VCS guidance for 
AFOLU projects has been followed and all major carbon pools accounted as required 
by the Methodology. 
 
According to the VCS Guidance for AFOLU Projects under REDD (p. 19) 
 
 
 
In Rimba Raya, the non-tree biomass pool is expected to show an increase in carbon 
stocks between the baseline and project. This increase is expected to be smaller than 
a de minimus and is therefore quantified, but conservatively excluded from carbon 
accounting. The Baseline scenario’s major carbon pool is in oil palm tree biomass, 
which is accounted and taken as a deduction against the baseline. 
 
According to the methodology (p. 18), the non-tree woody aboveground biomass 
component includes trees smaller than the minimum tree size measured in the tree 
biomass pool, all shrubs, and all other non-herbaceous (woody) live vegetation. 
More generally, project proponents consider non-tree biomass to be understory 
growth of woody vegetation. This is characterized as follows in the project vs. 
baseline scenario: 
 
In the project, flooding, soil-type conditions and overstorey canopy are not 
conducive to understory growth. Woody vegetation is primarily comprised of mature 
trees and tree saplings, therefore the “non-tree biomass” class is dominated by very 
small trees 5-10 cm DBH. 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 79 
In palm oil plantations, which are dominated by above-ground tree biomass, 
understory growth is even more sparse than in the project case, since active weeding 
and clearing are used to maintain worker access to the oil palm tree crop. 
 
Non-tree biomass was surveyed in 150 small plots (78m2) on 30 0.5 km transects 
adjacent to carbon transects. Biomass was quantified using the Chave et al. (2005) 
regression equation and was calculated to represent < 0.5% of total carbon stocks as 
described in the Baseline Report p. 21. 
 
Oil palm trees are considered to be “tree biomass” by the project proponents and 
are accounted as a major carbon pool. Estimated biomass growth of palm oil trees is 
described in the Baseline Report p. 66 and is taken as a deduction against the 
baseline avoided CO2 emissions. 
 
Validator Response: The response to this NCR provided improved clarity of the 
approach taken and is adequate to demonstrate compliance with VCS 2007.1. 
 
NCR Number 2010.51 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: The proponents have proposed to account for biomass in obscured trees 
using a regression equation created by Broadbent et al. (2008). The Methodology 
does not allow the use of a regression equation to predict additional biomass in 
obscured trees and, therefore, the use of such an equation would be a deviation 
from the Methodology. The Voluntary Carbon Standard 2007.1 requires that 
"Methodology Deviations shall not be permitted where they result in changes to the 
conservativeness of the... included project GHG sources, sinks and reservoirs." While 
omission of carbon in obscured trees is conservative, use of the Broadbent et al. 
(2008) approach would result in an estimate of carbon in the above-ground tree pool 
that may not be conservative. Therefore, it should not be used. 
Proponent Response:  
The Methodology does not provide guidance as to whether the regression equation 
should or should not include obscured tree crowns. This science is in development 
and this point made by the Broadbent et al. authors may have been over-
emphasized in the Baseline Report, as it was not substantive to model selection. 
 
The Broadbent et al. (2009) regression equation is a model that more closely 
estimates actual tree biomass based on ground data collected in the Rimba Raya 
project area. This equation was selected for its good fit to project area data, for its 
data requirements (tree crown area obtained from aerial plot data) and for its 
conservativeness (AGB carbon is lower when applying the Broadbent equation as 
compared to the Chave et al. equation see Baseline report p. 37) 
 
As further explanation of the Broadbent model, these authors suggest that their 
model is a good estimator of ground biomass where all trees are measured using 
aerial imagery where only some trees are measured, because it accurately accounts 
for obscured tree crowns in aerial imagery. Any biomass estimation model based on 
only visible tree crowns in aerial imagery essentially does the same. The discussion 
of this in the Baseline Report is included as a matter of scientific interest about how 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 80 
this model performs not as an explanation for model selection. 
Validator Response: The response to this NCR provided improved clarity of the 
approach taken and demonstrates a conservative approach to estimating above-
ground biomass using an equation that is relevant to the region and ecosystem 
found in the project area.  
 
NCR Number 2010.52 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: In order to ensure that the sampling methodology used can be replicated, 
please describe the process for dealing with trees that were near enough to the edge 
of a photo plot that their crown area was at least partly bisected by the plot border, 
as is illustrated in Figures 14-17. 
Proponent Response: All tree crowns overlapping any portion of the aerial plot 
boundary were digitized and areas calculated based on the measured tree crown 
radius. Then tree crowns were clipped to the plot boundary and areas recalculated in 
ArcGIS. Only the portion of crown areas falling inside the 1 ha plot boundary were 
included in plot-based tree-crown area assessments, as shown in the Baseline Report 
Figures 14-17. 
Validator Response: The response to this NCR provided improved clarity of the 
approach taken and is adequate to demonstrate a reasonable sampling regime for 
the project area.  
 
NCR Number 2010.53 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: The Methodology specifies that "measurements of peat bulk density should 
be taken across each stratum within the project boundary." However it also notes 
that "One value can be used if mean values do not differ significantly across strata". 
Please provide evidence that a statistically valid sample was made of peat bulk 
density across each stratum within the carbon accounting area. Alternatively, 
provide evidence that mean bulk density values are not expected to differ 
significantly across strata. If this cannot be done, then please use the default values 
as provided for by the Methodology for ex ante estimation and make a commitment 
to sample for bulk density at a future date. 
Proponent Response: The default value for peat bulk density 0.14 g/cm3 will be 
used in baseline calculations for years 1 and 2. Then in year 3 (July 2011 – June 
2012), this value will be replaced with a project-specific value and the baseline will 
be updated to reflect this change in accordance with the Methodology. 
 
Note that peat bulk density was already surveyed and assessed to be 0.1505 g/cm3 
in the single belowground strata defined for the project and met the uncertainty 
requirements of the methodology. However, the additional survey of peat bulk 
density will be carried out to better represent potential variation in above-ground 
strata. 
 
Following baseline update in year 3, carbon stocks will be added or subtracted from 
the total project carbon stock as warranted to account for data improvements as 
allowed by the Methodology. 
Validator Response: Reverting back to the default value for bulk density and 
committing to measure bulk density to better represent potential variation in above-

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 81 
ground strata is adequate to address the requirements of the methodology. The 
calculations were corrected and accurately represented in the excel spreadsheet. 
 
NCR Number 2010.54 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: The Methodology restricts applicability to "preventing land use change on 
undrained tropical peat swamp forests in southeast Asia only... Peat shall be defined 
as organic soils with at least 65% organic matter and a minimum thickness of 50 
cm2." The proponent has stipulated that "All but the kerangas forest and kerangas 
open scrub types are on peat substrates." Please demonstrate that the kerangas 
forest and kerangas open scrub types meet the minimum requirements for peat. 
Proponent Response:  
The entire project area is classified as peat swamp by the Indonesian Ministry of 
Foresty (2005) (see map below) and lies within the “Borneo Peat Swamp Forest” and 
“Southern Borneo Freshwater Swamp Forest” Terrestrial Ecoregion (Wikramanayake 
et al. 2002). All peats in the project area conform to the applicability requirement 
(organic soils with at least 65% organic matter and a minimum thickness of 50 cm2) 
as described in the peat survey report (Dwiastuti et al. 2010), which is included as an 
Annex to the Baseline Report. 
 
It is widely recognized that forests are not homogeneous and coastal Bornean 
peatlands may include mosaic patches of non-peat soils in close proximity to or 
mixed with peat. This variation in soil type is often reflected in tree species 
composition, such as patches of kerangas forest, which are mixed with peat swamp 
forest species in Rimba Raya.  
 
Therefore, to be conservative, all areas that may not meet the peat requirement 
based on land cover classification, were excluded from below ground biomass 
estimation in the baseline accounting. This effectively excludes all potential non-peat 
areas from the Carbon Accounting Area, while maintaining the integrity of the 
concession-based boundary, which lies wholly in a region classified as peatland. 
 
Validator Response: The response to this NCR provided improved clarity of the 
approach taken and is adequate to demonstrate compliance with the selected 
methodology.  
 
NCR Number 2010.55 of 56 Dated 4
th
 March 2011 
Finding: The Methodology requires that proponents estimate biomass logged in 
each stratum on the basis of plot data. It does not allow for the use of generic 
equations from outside studies. 
Proponent Response: Biomass logged is analyzed from Mawas plot data. These data 
are appropriate since the field site is a similar peat swamp forest within 100km of 
the Rimba Raya project which provides the most applicable “dataset of timber 
records of existing logging operations” required by the Methodology p. 13.  
 
This dataset has a sufficient sample size with low uncertainty which is noted in the 
Baseline spreadsheet: (“Logging gap data Mawas calculation sheet 23jun08-1.xls”) 
Mean = 0.36, SE = 0.0176, n=93. Uncertainty (90% CI/mean*100) = 8.04%. 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 82 
 
Validator Response:  This response is adequate to close this issue. The data used is 
relevant and based on plot data. 
 
NCR Number 2010.56 of 56 Dated 18
th
 March 2011 
Finding: Please demonstrate how the requirements of the AIM Step 2 detailed in the 
methodology have been adequately addressed. 
Proponent Response: In AIM Step 1, Tree Biomass (TB) was estimated using the 
allometric equations method that relates DBH or DBH and Tree Height to biomass. 
Chave et al. (2005) note that high species diversity in the tropics precludes using 
species-specific regressions models often used in the temperate zone; instead mixed 
species tree biomass regression models must be used. These authors use an 
extensive tropical dataset to test the generality of simple allometric models for 
biomass estimation since it is often impossible to independently build or quality test 
site-specific models. 
 
Biomass was calculated using three widely-used equations: two from Chave et al. 
(2005) equations for tropical moist forest (one based on DBH and one based on DBH 
and Tree Height) and a general tropical biomass equation (Brown 1997) based on 
DBH. 
 
AIM Step 2 
As required by AIM Step 2, allometric relationships were created to relate Tree 
Biomass (TB) to some combination of Tree Height (H) and/or Tree Crown Area (A) 
from ground plot data. Using collected data, all equation types were tested. Tree 
height was not used as a predictor in allometric models where the response variable, 
biomass was also based on tree height to avoid redundancy which would invalidate 
regression models. The 7 models tested (n=340) are listed below with regression 
results: 
 
1) TB [Chave D] = f(H)  R2 = 0.336 
2) TB [Brown D] = f(H)  R2 = 0.322 
3) TB [Chave D] = f(A)  R2 = 0.176 
4) TB [Chave D-H] = f(A) R2 = 0.193 
5) TB [Brown D] = f(A)  R2 = 0.170 
6) TB [Chave D] = f(A*H) R2 = 0.379 
7) TB [Brown D] = f(A*H) R2 = 0.364 
 
The biomass models including tree height explained 32%-38% of the variability in 
DBH-based biomass estimates for the plot trees. The improved strength of these 
models over those based only on Tree crown area is not surprising since DBH sets a 
mechanical constraint on tree height (O’Brien et al. 1995). The DBH-Height 
allometric relationship has been found to hold across a number of study sites, 
biomes and species and shows less variation than the DBH-Tree crown area 
relationship since tree crown area can vary depending on species, individual age, 
successional status and light environment (O’Brien et al. 1995, Asner et al. 2002, 
Palace et al. 2008). 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 83 
 
Given expected species-related crown characteristics, these same models were 
tested for the most common taxa surveyed in biomass plots. 1563 trees were 
recorded in 36 biomass plots covering 9 ha. Local names were recorded representing 
ca. 140 taxa (species or genus). Tabulation of these data show that only 8 taxa occur 
with > 3% frequency, with the dominant species occurring at a frequency of 8.39%. 
20 taxa comprise ca. 60% of all observations and most of these are proportionally 
represented in the subset of trees for which tree height and crown area were 
measured. Of the 20 most common taxa, those with few observations (n<7) were 
excluded. 16 taxa (n=7 to n=28) representing >52% of all tree data were used in the 
species biomass models (112 models total were tested). 
 
Results show that models 6 and 7 above perform best for the 16 common taxa. Nine 
of these species models show that tree height and crown area are strong predictors 
of biomass (R2 = 0.655 - 0.886). But there are several limitations that prevent 
applying these models to predict biomass from aerial-based tree crown delineations 
in AIM Step 7. Taxa in diverse tropical forests cannot be identified in aerial photos, 
so species-specific models cannot be applied. Regression slopes vary among these 
models and a combined-species model is not a good estimator of biomass (R2 = 
0.322) in this dataset. Height data is not available from aerial image analysis and is 
difficult to derive in dense canopy (Asner et al. 2002) forest limiting the feasibility of 
this approach. 
 
Greenberg et al (2007) applied similar methods with some success in Jeffrey Pine 
forest in the Lake Tahoe Basin and suggested that aerial image methods are best-
applied in low-diversity, single-strata temperate forests. The Methodology was 
based on techniques developed for oak-pine savanna with 10% forest cover in Belize 
where geometric oak canopies with well-studied allometric relationships could be 
easily differentiated (see Brown et al. 2005). These same methods were not 
successful in a follow-on study in tropical forest in Puerto Rico, but were successfully 
employed and extended in a study by Broadbent et al. (2008). 
 
Despite the limitations of applying aerial image methods for carbon stock 
assessment in tropical forest, the advantage is that low-altitude high resolution 
aerial imagery provides a detailed, top-down and synoptic view of all landcover 
types, which is especially important across remote and inaccessible areas (Brown et 
al 2005). This enables tree data to be collected across a statistically significant 
stratified random sample of large (1km2) plots, which has been carried out in AIM 
steps 3-6 for the project, and enables comparisons of tree stem density and tree 
crown size to be made across landcover types, which is presented in table 5 (check) 
in the Baseline Report. 
 
Deviation in AIM Step 2 
 
In order to use the best available information to meet the objectives of the tree 
biomass estimation, the following deviation is applied: 
 

VCS 2007.1 – InfiniteEARTH – Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve -  Validation Report 
 84 
1. The Broadbent et al. (2008) equation was applied to tree crown data derived from 
aerial imagery to make use of this large statistically significant sample data from 
Rimba Raya. A review of the literature shows that these authors, including Asner and 
Palace who have published extensively in this field, provide the most applicable and 
rigorous study for developing and applying allometric models to aerial imagery in 
tropical forest. Their dataset is large, and predictions were tested and found to be 
applicable in another tropical forest site. The tree crown data delineated in aerial 
photos provides a substantially large stratified random dataset across the project 
site including inaccessible areas, and assessing crown density and crown area 
provides a means of proportionally representing tree biomass across landcover 
types. 
 
2. Tree biomass estimates were then calibrated to the IPCC default values. Peat 
swamp forest biomass, estimated to be 267 tdm/ha using the Broadbent et al. 
equation was reduced 22.85% to meet the IPCC default value for moist tropical 
forest (206 tdm/ha). This same 22.85% reduction was applied to all landcover types. 
Revised biomass estimates are shown in this screen capture from the revised 
Baseline Calculation spreadsheet. 
 
 
 
This reduction in aboveground tree biomass essentially incorporates a confidence 
deduction associated with the AIM Step 2 deviation into the baseline calculations. 
Although this change made <1% difference in overall carbon credits since the project 
is overwhelmingly dominated by the peat carbon pool, it is nonetheless 
conservative. 
 
Validator Response: The approach taken by the proponent was considered to be 
conservative. A ecosystem relevant equation was applied with a higher R2 than 
could be generated with the AIM Step 2 and a further confidence deduction was 
taken to be more consistent with the IPCC default figures and the subset of field 
measurements taken in the project area. This approach was considered consistent 
with the methodology approach and lead to more appropriate estimation of the 
aboveground biomass than the strict application of the AIM Step in this case.  
 